DJ Cashmere: 
What: Curious how a horrible public school was transformed into one of the best public schools in the city
How: Approaches the problem by discussing what the previous school environment was like, and then discussed how it is like now
Why: Quality education that makes sure every student has their needs met, with trust between all levels of the school, and with safety in mind should be something that all students should have access to
So what: The public school hired some of the old teachers, used the same public school building as the previous school but it was able to transform it into the number one most academically impactful school in the city. This could be applied to other schools


Kamrun Nahar:
What: Personal experience of coughing and sneezing near the food cart motivated her to research what could be resulting in that
How: Addressed the problem by researching the air pollution being produced by food carts and what air particles could be found around the food carts
Why: The negative effects that these particles could have on people include asthma, lung cancer, etc. This should not be something that the people working on the food carts or people ordering from the food carts should be worried about
So What: The city should utilize different fuel types other than propane and charcoal to improve the air quality around food carts and improve the health of individuals around the carts. 


The nations affected most by climate change are poorer nations
Many wealthier countries are completely ignorant to the full extent of the impact of climate change
Characterizes this by having rising sea levels one of the biggest changes due to climate change rise up to the point poorer nations (many in the Southern hemisphere) are covered in water
Writer frames it as ignorance


A man in a suit lectures kids about how he made bank through the stock market while the world was being destroyed by climate change
Shows a completely destroyed planet but yet the business man still values his now worthless stocks 
He does not realize how inhumane he sounds
Writer frames it as a mockery


The topic of creating more sustainable and energy efficient buildings is interesting to me because it involves the intersection of various different fields of climate sustainability. Energy efficiency, technology use, architectural design, human resource management, etc. are all involved in the development of buildings that are environmentally efficient and sustainable. However, I want to find out more about certain topics in relation to the creation of these buildings.
How does a building become LEED certified? What is the difference between LEED platinum, LEED gold, etc?
What are all the various technologies available that allow an educational facility to run with energy efficiency in mind?
What can be done about the waste produced from buildings? Is it just thrown away? Is it recycled?
How do you sustainably power NYU facilities? Which renewable energy source is seen as most viable?
Through more research, I believe that I can find the answers to my current questions and develop a better understanding of building efficiency.


Keywords:
Important Keywords:
Cogeneration plants: More efficient and less wasteful heat and energy production
LEED Certification: NYU talks about how it tries to achieve LEED certification in its various buildings
STARS program: Measures sustainability progress of colleges and universities
Green Buildings: Buildings that have achieved good sustainability and energy efficiency
EHG Protocol Initiative: NYU’s methodologies to achieving a carbon neutral campus


Keywords that Need Expanding On:
IT Sustainability Initiative: What are the exact implementations of these plans? How is NYU exactly addressing issues regarding technology use?
Behavior Change: Is there a way to change the way students, faculty etc think in regards to becoming energy aware through building design?
STARS/LEED: Why are these programs credible? Why can it be trusted that a building is considered energy efficient due to having LEED certification and being rewarded by the STARS program?
Climate Mobilization Act: How is NYU working with the city to implement its sustainable energy plans? How does the city aid NYU, how does NYU aid the city?
Sustainable Energy: Which energy sources does NYU find most viable?


Audience:
The target audience would be NYU students, faculty and investors. I want to push them to take initiative to push the progress of NYU’s development into a carbon neutral campus. Research and aid in the development of technologies that can aid NYU and other institutions to progress sustainably in their buildings. They should be incentivized to help towards this goal because NYU’s buildings contribute to 99.4% of its total emissions. Greener buildings also improves mental cognition. 
Pitch:
Improving building efficiency in NYU is vital to aid in its goal of carbon neutrality. However, the method of which this should be done needs to be more transparent to NYU students and staff members. 99.4% of NYU’s total emissions are due to its buildings, which further incentivizes NYU to transform its buildings towards more green and sustainable energy sources and more efficient technologies. However, this needs to be done with everyone in the university working towards the goal. With the cooperation of everyone, achieving carbon neutrality seems more and more possible.


Hello! In highschool, I took a class called Writing to Make Change, where we learned about various different ways on how to utilize writing to create change within our communities. At the end of the class, we had to write a piece that we had to send out into the world, one way or another. I wrote an op-ed about how climate change would impact my community by the year 2050. I submitted my op-ed to a local newspaper to hopefully be published. They never published it… but I still enjoyed the entire experience of researching, writing, and editing my final op-ed. It felt like I finally had the ability to have people hear what I had to say. Of course no one really did at the end, but it was still great nonetheless. My experience in Writing to Make Change led me to choosing the Service writing class in Tandon. I wanted to try and play a bigger part within my community. 
I am interested in helping call for improved transportation in Queens. The subway service in Queens often has delays, many subway stations are incredibly unclean, and they only go directly to Manhattan. I wanted to try and advocate for more direct subway lines from Queens to Brooklyn. I feel transportation to Brooklyn is too long for no reason when the two boroughs are next to each other. Most subway lines go from Queens to Manhattan and then to Brooklyn. By cutting off the transport to Manhattan, travel time is going to be significantly reduced. This greatly benefits people in either borough who go to university (I am incredibly biased) or have jobs in the other borough.
I am also interested in continuing my writing and research from high school regarding climate change. I wanted to spread awareness about climate change to my local community. Climate change will greatly affect every single person on the planet, but from personal experience, most people in my community, mostly the older generation, are completely oblivious to the issue of climate change. I believe that if humanity wants to take on the challenge of climate change then it will require the collaborative effort of everyone playing their part.
Eric Liu’s speech helped reinforce the idea that I can do a lot more than I think to influence my community. I want to be able to create a lot of change in my community and improve the daily lives of the individuals within it. I’ve lived in Queens, New York for the entirety of my life and I feel like it is my responsibility as a citizen to aid in my community. I hope that by attending this class I will be able to accomplish this goal. I also hope to expand upon my knowledge of issues that impact various other communities and see how viewing and learning about these issues can help me understand the issues within my own community. I cannot wait to see what is in store for the rest of the semester!


When you hear about nuclear energy, what do you think of? Do you think about the Chernobyl meltdown and how the USSR, if not all of Europe, was negatively impacted by it? Or do you think about the disaster at the Fukushima power plant in Japan after the major earthquakes in 2011? These meltdowns have caused widespread hatred towards the idea of nuclear energy, and it has caused many nuclear power plants to be shut down due to public fear. However, these fears are unfounded and overexaggerated. In fact, nuclear power may be the best weapon we have in our fight against climate change. 
Nuclear energy is a no carbon emission form of energy production. In fact, according to the World Nuclear Association, the carbon that nuclear energy produces is the same amount that wind energy produces and ⅓ (!!) of the emissions of solar panels. Nuclear energy is also an incredibly powerful form of energy production, as countries such as France have produced most of its energy from nuclear energy (World Nuclear Association). Other forms of nonrenewable energy such as solar and wind cannot be expanded to the point where it can produce the majority of a country’s electricity. This makes nuclear energy necessary to make up for the remaining energy production that nonrenewable energy sources are unable to produce. Many countries globally still rely upon fossil fuels for a majority of their energy production. This is a problem as a majority of the world’s carbon emissions are a result of fossil fuel use. In fact, in the year 2021, 150 thousand terawatt hours of electricity produced from natural gas, coal, and oil were consumed by people worldwide (Our World in Data, 2021). This is more than 6 times the amount of energy consumed that was produced by renewable energy sources (27 thousand terawatt hours). Reducing the energy produced by fossil fuels will be essential in reducing the total carbon emissions worldwide, and nuclear energy will be the best form of energy to do that. 


As each second passes, humanity releases more and more greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions into the atmosphere. With each passing second, the future of our species and of our planet looks bleak. If we want to change the outlook for humanity’s future, we must reduce our GHG emissions radically. To achieve GHG neutrality, an essential economic sector that we must change is the energy sector. In the year 2016, the energy sector accounted for approximately 73.2% of total global emissions (Ritchie 2020). This overwhelming contribution of GHG emissions is due to how a majority of energy production is derived from fossil fuels (84% of energy production in 2019) (Ritchie 2022). Humanity must begin relying upon GHG-free sources of energy. In fact, nuclear energy is one of our best methods of transitioning away from fossil fuel energy production. Though there may be controversy surrounding nuclear energy (only 35% of Americans encourage the use of it according to a study done by the Pew Research Center in 2022), I firmly believe nuclear energy is one of the cleanest, safest, and most effective energy sources that we have available to us to reduce our GHG emissions. 
Nuclear energy is a cleaner, more reliable, and more efficient source of energy compared to fossil fuels and even other renewable energy sources. The energy that a singular pellet of nuclear fuel produces is equivalent to the energy produced by 120 gallons of oil or 17,000 cubic feet of natural gas (Sen 2019). This makes nuclear energy an incredibly efficient source of energy, and it means not as much nuclear fuel will have to be extracted compared to fossil fuels.                In addition to its efficiency, nuclear energy is not easily interrupted in its production of energy. Nuclear power plants produce at full capacity for 92% of the time while other energy sources, fossil fuels, and renewables, don’t produce at full capacity for more than 60% of the time (Sen 2019). Energy sources such as solar and wind power are dependent on their environmental factors while nuclear energy production will almost always remain constant as long as the nuclear power plant remains operational. 
Along with its efficiency and reliability, nuclear energy does not release many GHG emissions compared to other energy sources. The lifetime emissions of an average nuclear power plant are estimated to be between 4 gCO2eq/kWh and 110 gCO2eq/kWh. In fact, this is an 80% decrease from the lifetime emissions of natural gas and even a 90% decrease from the emissions of coal. Even compared to other renewable energy sources, the total lifetime emissions of nuclear power plants are only beaten by the lifetime emissions of wind power (Energysage 2021). Nuclear energy’s efficiency, lack of GHG emissions, and reliability make it an incredibly effective alternative to fossil fuels.
Though nuclear energy provides multiple benefits over fossil fuels, there are still multiple caveats that are brought up against it. A notable downside of utilizing nuclear energy is the nuclear waste that it produces. The US currently has 85,000 tons of nuclear waste that it has yet to store away in a permanent underground location. This waste can be harmful to the environment due to the radiation being emitted from it, so it is vital that it is handled with immense care (US Government Accountability Office). 
The majority of countries currently have focused on short-term solutions to the handling of nuclear waste. The struggle of handling nuclear waste boils down to the heat it produces and the radiation it emits. For example, France, a country that produces 70% of its energy from nuclear energy, has a complicated process of cooling down nuclear waste in pools of water and then storing the fuel in underground locations. The problem is as of right now, it does not have a designated underground facility for the handling of nuclear waste, which makes disposal of it difficult. Despite there being several difficulties with the handling of nuclear waste, France has begun investing in a 25 billion-dollar underground geological facility for nuclear waste to reside (Vella 2018). Through this facility, France hopes to be able to store nuclear waste long term, and it can act as an example to other countries on how they too could store their nuclear waste. 
In fact, nuclear energy does not only have to be stored away. Nuclear waste could be recycled through the use of fast reactors. In the United States, only 5% of a fuel rod is being used by current nuclear reactors while the rest of it is deemed as waste. However, fast reactors would be able to utilize more of the waste and convert it into viable energy. In fact, current reactors don’t even have to change how they produce nuclear energy, instead, the waste that they produced could be converted into viable fuel for a fast reactor through pyro processing, which converts the waste into fuel rods once more (Lerner 2012). In addition to this method, with more investment and research into how to reuse nuclear waste, the problem of nuclear waste becomes less of an issue for us to worry about. 
One of the bigger concerns that people have over nuclear energy is the possibility of failure within a nuclear power plant and a possible meltdown. One of the most famous examples of this is the Chernobyl power plant in Ukraine. In 1986, the Chernobyl power plant melted down which resulted in radiation being spread all throughout the area, contaminating it and making it unlivable for decades if not centuries to come (Blakemore 2019). The possibility of this disaster happening once more is a reasonable fear for the general public to have. The utter destruction that Chernobyl brought upon the USSR and all throughout Europe is almost immeasurable. However, 30 years later, technology has developed and is being developed to prevent a disaster like that from happening once more. For example, X-energy is developing a reactor design that they guarantee will not melt down due to the pebble structure it utilizes. The company has received 2.5 billion dollars in funding to demonstrate its effectiveness, and its design is being considered by the US government (Office of Nuclear Energy 2021). Along with the development of new technology, nuclear power plants today have to undergo incredibly strict safety measures. Specifically in the US, nuclear power plants are made sure to meet strict standards in cybersecurity, security, and most importantly having plans in the case of an emergency (NEI). Past nuclear meltdowns, like Chernobyl, have been due to careless safety neglect within the plants (Katsenko 2020). However, this will not be an issue in many modern-day nuclear power plants. These strict guidelines and the development of new technologies make the likelihood of another Chernobyl happening again unlikely, which can hopefully alleviate the fear that a lot of the public currently has regarding nuclear energy.
Overall, I truly believe nuclear power can be one of the most vital tools in our fight against climate change. No, I do not believe that it should be our sole energy source. However, I do believe that it should be used in conjunction with other renewable energy sources to achieve a GHG-free energy sector worldwide. If we want to save humanity’s future from one of climate chaos, we must begin transitioning to cleaner energy sources now. Nuclear energy’s efficiency, cleanliness, and reliability make it an optimal candidate for this transition. I believe we can solve the problems that it prevents and with that, achieve a greener and brighter future for us all.


Capitalism is defined as an economic and political system in which the means of production are owned by individuals or corporations for profit motives. It is an economic system that allows for corporations to rake in $200 billion dollars, while actively contributing to the destruction of our planet (Milman 2023). It is a system in which the companies that make our favorite chocolate bars can be accused of using child labour and even child slavery as long as it decreases labour expenses (Balch 2021). As I grew up, it seemed as if capitalism’s chokehold on society and my life grew tighter and tighter. This chokehold is especially prevalent once I enrolled into NYU as a computer science major. It seems like the only fate I am working towards is working at a MAANG (Meta, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Google) to waste precious years of my life to help these corporations obtain higher profit margins. Either that, or start my own startup business to exploit others for my own profits. I fully believe that computer science, and in fact any form of engineering, can be used to help change the lives of millions of people worldwide. However, in a capitalist economy, the focus of engineering shifts from genuinely improving people’s lives with tech to designing technology that will help corporations make more money. I hated this mindset. I hated how society worked. I wanted to change it all. However, the behemoth of capitalism cannot be taken down by a singular person. The scale of capitalism’s roots in our society is incomprehensible to my mind. I felt powerless. I felt there was no way for me to take meaningful action. However, this mentality of mine was changed when I enrolled in the Advanced Writing for Engineers: Service class at NYU.
During the first progression of our semester, we discussed NYU’s plan to achieve carbon neutrality by the year 2040. In its 2021 climate action update report, NYU discussed how it planned to change a variety of its sectors to reduce carbon emissions, reduce overall waste, and achieve a greener campus (NYU 2021). It also celebrated how much progress has already been made towards reaching its goals. Climate change, just like capitalism, is a problem that is enormously huge in scale. I can appreciate how NYU is tackling this problem at a university level, which seems more reasonable for the institution. However, I also learned how NYU’s approach to university can be seen as insufficient as the university actively funds the fossil fuel industry. In fact, a board of trustee member, Laurence D. Fink, is the CEO of BlackRock which has over $85 billion dollars invested into the fossil fuel industry (Kumar 2021). With 100 companies contributing to 71% of climate emissions from 1988, NYU actively undermines its sustainability efforts with its investments (Hyman 2020). This only added to my dread towards capitalism, as profits are what will ultimately dictate NYU’s, and other private institutions, motives rather than actual meaningful change. However, we used NYU’s approach to its sustainability goals to create posters that will be displayed to other university students. 
I worked on a poster that suggested small daily life changes to NYU students so that NYU can further reduce its building emissions. This helped me change my perspective on how to address problems that I found within society. I hate corporations’ attempts at pinning the blame of climate change away from themselves and onto the consumer. However, with this poster, we empowered people with the idea that they can have some sort of impact with only a few small life changes. It scaled down the problem of climate change into a form that university students can tackle. It did not pin responsibility onto them because we address how NYU is already taking essential steps as the primary producer of emissions on a university scale. I do wish I added elements of criticism of NYU’s approach towards sustainability into my poster, I was still ultimately happy with the final result. It helped me realize that I too can create meaningful change through scaling a problem into a form where I can take direct action.
I used this new approach to addressing problems within my society to write my op-ed. I learned how the US’ energy industry accounted for 25% of its total greenhouse gas emissions in 2020, and I researched how nuclear energy can be an effective alternative that can reduce the country’s total greenhouse gas emissions and power the entire nation (Environmental Protection Agency, 2022). Normally, climate change’s scale was demotivating for me because I did not know how to even approach the problem which made me lost. However, the poster and this op-ed taught me how to downscale larger problems to address different levels that contribute to the problem. In my op-ed, I was able to downscale the problem of climate change to specifically address the US’ energy sector and the nuclear energy industry in the US, and push for greater investment from the US into nuclear energy to aid in its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
My next project was focused on writing a white paper to create a policy to address a problem in relation to sustainability. It was this project that allowed me to finally take an attempt at addressing the problems created by capitalism. Homelessness is a problem that is perpetuated by a capitalist system. It is simply not profitable for corporations to invest in policies that provide services for homeless individuals (Bagakis 2017). The problem of homelessness is especially prevalent in New York City, as 102,656 homeless people slept over at shelters during 2022 (Coalition for the Homeless). In the white paper, I discussed social policies that New York City could implement to reduce the homeless as many of the city’s current policies are flawed. By downscaling the problem of capitalism to addressing homelessness and then scaling homelessness to a city scale, the problem became much easier to begin to address.
My experiences in the Advanced Writing for Engineers: Service class has taught me an important lesson in how to address problems addressing society. The scaling of problems can make attempting to address problems much easier. I gained not only a new perspective, but also a new form of hope for what I can do in the future to be civically engaged. I do believe that capitalism is the root cause behind several of the problems in our current society. However, I no longer feel lost, and I feel like I can take better steps to create meaningful change within society.


Topic and Purpose Statement:
I hope to raise awareness and propose systemic changes that NYC can impose to aid in the homelessness crisis within the city. I hope to contextualize the problem of homelessness within the city to readers, and help push readers to push for solutions for this problem. I also hope to bring light to already suggested solutions and other feasible solutions that could be implemented citywide.


Problem:
There were 68,884 people considered to be homeless in New York City in December 2022. This number of homeless people within the city is said to be almost the same as the number of homeless people during the Great Depression in the 1930s. The problem of homelessness in the city has been growing too, as the number of homeless single adults has risen 112% from 10 years ago. Homeless people struggle to acquire food, struggle to find a place to sleep, and are often treated negatively by society. However, as New Yorkers and human beings, it should be our moral right to prevent this from being a situation that anyone should ever be in. We should be incentivized to try and help homeless people get back on their feet as no one should ever live in fear of having food and shelter.


Proposed Solution:
Countries throughout the world have taken their own approaches in trying to solve homelessness in their country. For example, Finland implemented a housing first program for homeless people. They provide housing to homeless people and have them pay rent, but they provide other services to the people. This has significantly reduced the number of homeless people within the countries. Though critics of the solution have stated that this does not address the root cause of why people are homeless, the program argues that by providing a home to homeless individuals makes solving said problems much easier. This solution could possibly be implemented within the city of New York through the buying of private housing and turning it into housing for homeless individuals (which is what Finland did). Or utilize the already vacant apartments in the city because 4.54% of all apartments in the city were considered vacant in 2021. 


Feasibility:
In order for a proposed solution to be successful, it is essential to convince the public that aiding the homeless is essential and that said solution will be effective in doing so. Homelessness should be a problem that no one should ever go through, we must help these people. Solutions proposed should either provide a crutch for the homeless to conquer the issues that resulted in their homelessness or target the core issues directly. Solutions should also be realistically fundable by the city government.


Audience:
The primary audience is New Yorkers. It should be our moral incentive to help homeless people within the city and help them stabilize their lives again. A secondary audience could be people living in other cities who could propose similar solutions within their own communities.


Topics to Research:
What are the core issues that result in someone becoming homeless? How can we directly target these issues with programs/policy changes?
What are ways we can aid homeless people in changing their lives? How can we ensure that they receive proper resources to survive?
How can we convince the general public that solving homelessness is our responsibility as people and citizens? How can we reduce the negative stigma associated with homeless people within the city?


Call to Action:
It should be our moral responsibility as human beings and New Yorkers to help people struggling with homelessness. No human should ever have to struggle to acquire food, water or shelter. No person should have to worry about whether they will be able to make it to tomorrow. Any single one of us could fall into homelessness due to unfortunate circumstances, and we too would want people to help us in that dire situation. We must address the growing homeless crisis in NYC through policy changes, and we must push politicians to support policies that will aid those who are homeless.


Fight climate change! Stop using fossil fuels, and switch to renewables!  When global temperatures go above 2℃, the planet is doomed! Growing up, I always heard about the inevitability of climate change and how we needed to combat it. Yet, as I hung out with friends, played basketball, played video games, and attended school, these warnings were just afterthoughts to me. However, as the years passed by, the ever-growing consequences of climate change began to rear their ugly head in my life. In 2018, I remember how awfully hot it was in the summer. I remember the temperature breaking 100℉ multiple times when average summer temperatures were supposed to be 70℉. It was only after that summer that I learned that it was the fourth hottest NYC summer on record. From then, it seemed like the following summers became hotter and hotter. Winters became warmer as the years went on, with snowfall happening less frequently. Dangerous thunderstorms became a more frequent experience for the city, with Hurricane Ida actually flooding neighboring communities in 2021. Family members I had in Bangladesh had to move to new villages constantly as their homes were being devastated by floods. As a result, the impact of climate moved from the background to the forefront of my life. 
In the past couple of years, climate change was this overbearing cloud of existential dread for me. My life might be pointless because climate change is just going to destroy the planet and everything that I care about! was a thought that constantly played inside of my head. Seeing how little action world leaders were taking to improve climate change filled me with a feeling of despair. However, a small light of hope appeared amidst the hopelessness once I started attending NYU Tandon. At Tandon, I saw all the resources and technologies available. I was especially interested in the research of Artificial Intelligence at the institution. Artificial Intelligence has always intrigued me as it opens up almost endless possibilities for integration into various fields. I believed that Artificial Intelligence technologies could be used to help mitigate the disastrous effects of climate change. However, I wasn’t able to pursue this interest of mine because I didn’t have the resources nor the support system to reach my goals. However, this changed once I received an invitation to apply to the GLASS program. 
The GLASS program provides an opportunity for me to research how artificial intelligence can be used to help in the fight against climate change. I believe the study abroad opportunities the program offers allow me to gain a better grasp of the global impact of climate change. I want to see how other countries are being affected by climate change, along with how these countries are trying to combat its effects. A better understanding of the global effects of climate change will allow me to tackle the problem from a different perspective. Along with the study abroad opportunities the program provides, I will be able to develop connections with NYU faculty and other knowledgeable figures in the field of engineering. A particular interest of mine is using artificial intelligence to process existing sea level data and geographic information of coastal communities, and then projecting how rising sea levels will affect the area in the next few decades. I want to meet faculty working on data science projects/machine learning models, and apply their knowledge to my own AI models. I am also interested in using AI in robots that can recognize and aid people to safety in dangerous flooding situations. The current climate demands that we develop solutions to the problems that exist right now, such as flooding. Through the GLASS program, I hope to attain a holistic understanding of robotics and AI and how they can be used to combat the effects of climate change.
The GLASS program will provide me with the resources and framework necessary to help me develop my own projects to aid in the fight against climate change. I refuse to sit by idly as corporate leaders and world governments do very little to fight climate change, which is making the world that I live in more and more uninhabitable and dangerous as each year passes. I want to take control with my own hands and contribute to the fight against climate change, and GLASS will be what helps in doing so.
I believe a global leader is an organization or an individual who works to create positive global change that helps change the lives of many people. A personal favorite global leader of mine is the National Basketball Association (NBA). Originally, the NBA mainly consisted of players that came from the United States. However, the NBA worked to expand the sport of basketball throughout the world. They developed youth programs to help train children. The NBA and many of its players have built various courts throughout the entire world, especially in poorer communities where the sport may not be as accessible. The NBA has also worked to bring more attention to international leagues such as the Euroleague and Chinese Basketball Association (CBA). Through its combined effort, the sport of basketball has become loved worldwide by millions of people, and the player base has become more diverse than it has ever been. The global impact that the NBA has had cements the organization as one of the most influential global leaders of the past few decades. 
It is often said that we as people are shaped by the environment that we grow up in. Brave Orchid is no exception to this, having grown up in pre-Communist China. Brave Orchid’s has always strongly opposed the patriarchy and the values of women that she was taught while growing up in China. These values that she holds influences the actions that she takes with her sister throughout At the Western Palace in The Woman Warrior. Ultimately, however, she needed to help strengthen her sister’s own self confidence to confront her husband, which led to the descent of madness for her sister. 
Society in pre-Communist China promoted ideas of misogyny which reinforced the patriarchal system that existed. These ideas of misogyny are exemplified through ideas such as girl babies being viewed as lesser than boy babies. Mothers who love their children take them along. It was probably a girl; there is some hope of forgiveness for boys (20). However, Brave Orchid was able to break free of a lot of these societal values by becoming a doctor. Her freedom from these perpetuated values is exemplified when she confronts the sitting ghost back when she was in studying to become a doctor. There is no pain you can inflict that I cannot endure. You’re wrong if you think I’m afraid of you. You’re no mystery to me. I’ve heard of you Sitting Ghosts before. Yes, people have lived to tell about you. You kill babies, you cowards. You have no power over a strong woman (70). By confronting the ghost, Brave Orchid is confronting the expectations of women that were put onto her while she grew up. She believes that she has ultimate control over her own destiny, and that she will not let society dictate what life she lives. Ultimately, Brave Orchid is shown to ultimately want to reject the patriarchy that she grew up with in China, and these beliefs ultimately dictate the actions that she will take with her sister. 
When Brave Orchid’s sister, Moon Orchid, arrives in America, Brave Orchid wants Moon to confront her husband. Your husband is going to have to see you. We’ll make him recognize you. Ha. Won’t it be fun to see his face? (121). Brave wants Moon to confront her husband for his absence from Moon’s life. Brave emphasizes how even though Moon’s husband provided money to her in China, he left her essentially a widow and didn’t do anything to mentally/emotionally support Moon. Moon is ultimately afraid of confronting her husband after 30 years of no contact, but Brave does what she can to encourage Moon to ultimately confront her husband. When they arrive at the office of Moon’s husband, Moon constantly tries to go back but Brave does everything that she can to support her. She imagines creative scenarios to lure her husband back in, and tries to invoke courage into Moon. Brave always reminds Moon that she will have her back no matter what Moon’s husband tries to do to her (139-143). Her actions to support Moon in her confrontation with her husband show Moon’s strength and willingness to step up not just for herself but for other women who are mistreated by men and ultimately the patriarchy. When Moon and Brave met Moon’s husband, however, things began to fall apart.
Moon’s confrontation with her husband parallels Brave’s confrontation with the sitting ghost as both are the sisters’ attempt at conquering the injustices done to them by the patriarchy. Brave confronts the expectations that Chinese society had of women, while Moon is confronting the husband who ultimately isolated her from his own life. However, the two situations are completely different for one ultimate reason: the willingness to even confront the injustices in the first place. Brave willingly slept in the room in which the sitting ghost resided. I’ll go sleep in the ghost room. Then if anything happens, I won’t miss it. I hope I’ll be able to recognize the ghost when I see it. Sometimes ghosts put on such mundane disguises, they aren’t particularly interesting (67). Brave was willing to confront the patriarchy, and she did it on her own accord. On the contrary, throughout At the Western Palace, Moon has expressed her unwillingness to confront her husband. Though Brave tries her best to encourage Moon to confront him, Moon is not ready to do so. So, when the moment arrives to talk to her husband, Moon is unable to fully confront him. Moon Orchid was so ashamed, she held her hands over her face. She wished she could also hide her dappled hands. Her husband looked like one of the ghosts passing the car windows, and she must look like a ghost from China. They had indeed entered the land of ghosts, and they had become ghosts (149). Moon wasn’t ready to confront her husband yet, despite how much Brave tried to help her. At the end, Brave forced Moon to meet her husband when she did not have courage to do so yet. Moon, at the end, was unable to get the justice that she wanted against her husband. Both Brave and Moon have to confront the ghosts of patriarchy that have haunted their lives, but their willingness is what determines the success of their confrontations.
After the confrontation, Moon begins to descend into madness. Moon Orchid said that she had overheard Mexican ghosts plotting on her life (151). This fear continues to worsen and causes Moon to further isolate herself from society and impact the family around her. Brave tries to cure Moon through traditional cultural methods from China. However, through helping Moon, Brave realizes how much power men truly have over women in Chinese society. Brave Orchid told her children they must help her keep their father from marrying another woman because she didn’t think she could take it any better than her sister had (156). She realizes how much courage and how necessary it is for readiness for someone to confront the injustices of patriarchy. Brave, though she was able to confront the effect that patriarchy in China has had on her, was unable to do so for Moon. Ultimately, Brave’s own actions were dictated by her own ability to confront the patriarchy, but Moon herself was not ready to do it herself, which ultimately led to her delving into madness.
Barn’s burnt down—now I can see the moon (Masahide). The Japanese picture brides in The Buddha in the Attic traveled to the USA with their own version of the American Dream in their mind. They had this vision of having young, wealthy and handsome men who would have taken care of them. They imagined However, what they were presented with was a life of brutal exploitation and constant abuse from their husbands and other Americans around them. They were collectively imprisoned within a barn under the American systems of patriarchy, racial hierarchy, and capitalism. The moon, a representation of that American dream that they once believed in, was locked away from the Japanese picture brides, and only by burning down these systems of oppression, can they once again have their dreams be in view. Julie Otsuka included Masahide’s epigraph in The Buddha in the Attic to emphasize how the American dream was out of reach for the brides and other people within the country by the very intersecting systems that perpetuate its existence.
America has almost always existed as a patriarchal society. The men within The Buddha in the Attic are seen exploiting and abusing their Japanese picture brides. For example, when the women had just first arrived to America, they were raped by their husbands. That night our husbands took us quickly… They took us before we were ready and the bleeding did not stop for three days… They took us violently, with their fists, whenever we tried to resist (19-20). They were seen as nothing more than objects of pleasure by the American men. This experience, and the many other times they were often raped, must have felt dehumanizing to the Japanese picture brides. Along with their sexual exploitation, the Japanese picture brides were also physically exploited for labor by their husbands. We never would have come to America to do the work that no self-respecting American would do (29). The Japanese women were often put to work on fields all day long with very little to no pay by their husbands. The labor was harsh and often caused long-term damage to the brides. Due to these harsh conditions they worked under, people (mostly men) who were in far better conditions used their privileges to coerce the women. Sometimes one of our husband’s unmarried worker friends approached us the moment our husband stepped away and tried to slip us a five-dollar bill. ‘Just let me put it in once,’ (33). As women, the Japanese picture brides were seen as lesser than the men within American society. As women, they were seen as nothing but objects of labor and sexual pleasure within American society. As women, they were not free and they could almost never realize that American Dream they had on the boat to the country. American patriarchy helped propped up the barn that encased the Japanese picture brides, almost like they were animals.
Along with the patriarchy, the Japanese picture brides also faced subjugation due to their race. One of the ways their race is shown to play a large part in their lives is through the difference between the lives that white women lived and their own lives. The Japanese brides women often expressed an envy for the white women that they worked under. We loved them. We hated them. We wanted to be them… They had a confidence that we lacked. And much better hair. So many colors. And we regretted that we could not be more like them (39). Though both the White women and the Japanese women lived under the same system of patriarchy in America, the Japanese women often faced even harsher conditions due to the color of their skin. They could not enjoy the same luxuries and small little freedoms that the white women were able to enjoy. The ultimate demonstration of racism within American society is the treatment Japanese people were forced to undergo during the entrance of America into World War II. A few of us began receiving anonymous letters in the mail, informing us that our husbands would be next. I’d think about getting out of town if I were you… Overnight, our neighbors began to look at us differently… They’re afraid– still, we were unprepared. Suddenly, to find ourselves the enemy. (84-85). All of a sudden, at the start of World War II for America, Japanese people found themselves at the brunt of racist rhetoric in the country. They were seen as enemies who were not to be trusted, despite the fact that almost all Japanese people in the country had no allegiance back to mainland Japan. A distinction should have been made between what the government of a country does and what the citizens of said country do. Without such a distinction, racist rhetoric emerges and starts to negatively affect the targeted group of people, which is what happened to Japanese people. The ultimate culmination of the targeted racism against them during the war was when the US government ordered for Japanese people to be removed and placed into internment camps. Racism is another system of oppression that imprisons the Japanese picture brides within their barns, dehumanizing them. They can’t live their ideal lives because they are not white. The American Dream only exists for white people, while all other races are forced under oppression to allow them to live their privileged lives.
In America, the Japanese picture brides underwent the oppression of the capitalist system that is so entangled within society. They are brought to this country to be used as free labor at farms, to be used as house maids at wealthy people’s homes, and prostitution work. They are only seen through the lens of profit for the American capitalist class. We were an unbeatable, unstoppable machine and if our progress was not checked the entire western United States would soon become the next Asiatic outpost and colony (35). Despite the value that the Japanese picture brides provided to America, they received very little to none of that wealth. They often lived in horrible material conditions. Due to their material conditions, the Japanese picture brides were barred from the same luxuries that white, wealthy men in America had access to. They often worked in poor working conditions which was justified through racism and misogyny that was deeply ingrained in American society. Capitalism is what keeps the Japanese picture brides working at the barn, without the ability to pursue their own versions of the American dream.
Throughout The Buddha in the Attic, Julie Otsuka discusses the various systems of oppression that bar the Japanese picture brides from realizing their dreams. America is a country that prides itself on being a country of freedom, a country where a person can live out their dreams and ideal life. However, this dream can only be realized by wealthy, white American men who propagate their own power through the exploitation of marginalized groups in the country. The Japanese picture brides helped build the wealth of the American empire and their exploitation is justified through their race and gender being seen as less human. They are imprisoned within the metaphorical barns of Masihide’s haiku. However, their dreams can once again be within view through the tearing down of these systems of oppression, by burning down the barn that they are in. We must work to make sure that the experiences that Japanese picture brides undergo are something that people in the coming generations never have to experience. Only through disentangling the systems of patriarchy, racism, and capitalism can the American Dream be achieved by all.
A century of French colonialism in Vietnam created a lasting impact on the lives of Vietnamese people. Colonialism shaped the socioeconomic conditions that Vietnamese people lived in. French influence is prevalent throughout Hang Truong’s life growing up in Vietnam. The colonial influence of France takes root in Hang’s race, culture, and class throughout her time growing up in French-ruled Vietnam.
Hang Truong’s race played a large role into how she was viewed and how her family was treated within French colonized Vietnam. Being a person of Vietnamese descent, she, along with her family, were treated harshly by society. For example, Hang mentioned how her family used to live in the capital of Cambodia. However, they were forced to move because ...there was trouble in Cambodia-they were killing Vietnamese people (137). Being Vietnamese exposed Hang to racism at an incredibly young age. Vietnamese people under French colonization were viewed as lesser people, and the majority of the time experienced far worse conditions than French people who lived there. Though Hang’s family benefited from having wealth and a position in the government, prevalent racism at the time still put their family in danger. The racism in Vietnamese society not only took an explicit form, but also rooted itself within the very structures of it. For example, there is a dramatic difference in quality between French schools and Vietnamese schools. Hang says, My parents were very PROUD, and I stayed in French schools for my entire education (140). She also mentioned how she was the only sibling to stay in French education because of how expensive it was. The difference in quality between the French and Vietnamese schools indicates that systemic forms of racism were prevalent within society at the time. Though Hang was able to attend the French schools, she was unable to learn more about her home culture and language there. Hang had to learn how to read Vietnamese on her own (141). Not only is the quality of French and Vietnamese schools different, but French schools try to assimilate their students into French culture. The education system within colonized Vietnam is only one example of the systemic racism that took root within it. Systematic and explicit racism due to French colonization shaped the way Hang and so many other Vietnamese people lived their lives. 
French colonization shaped the culture that Hang was exposed to growing up. Growing up, Hang was exposed to a mostly French culture. Hang attends French schools, doesn’t learn the Vietnamese language from said schools, and, as someone from a rich family, does not experience the same hardships that a majority of Vietnamese people experienced while under French colonial rule. However, Hang later learned about how France colonized her country. As for me, it was by reading history books in Vietnamese that I learned how the French had come and colonized our country. I started to feel a sense of nationalism and pride in my own people…We’re Vietnamese. Let’s not speak French outside of school anymore (147). By exposing herself to the cruelties that French colonization brought upon Vietnam, it inspired her to reconnect with her traditional roots. However, by abandoning the French culture that she was being exposed to for her whole life so far, she started to feel a sense of isolation. This isolation she experienced was shown when she attended a French all-girl catholic school. My classmates spoke French all the time even outside of school…Daddy, please! Come take me out of here! Everyone is a complete FRANCOPHILE! (148). By adopting her own culture, she found herself surrounded by people who did not feel the same way as her. By further learning about her own culture, she realizes how she does not enjoy being surrounded by French culture. French colonialism impacted the culture that Hang was exposed to. In retaliation to French influence, Hang developed a stronger sense of identity but a greater sense of isolation from the French culture she was surrounded by as well.
Hang’s class under French colonial rule shaped how she and her family lived their lives. Her father came from a wealthy background. My family was a civil engineer. He worked for the French then later for the South Vietnamese government. He was the chief of public works, so we lived in houses provided by the government. We had servants, cooks, gardeners, chauffeurs all paid for by the government (137). Hang’s life was shaped by being born into a family of a wealthier background. Her father was able to provide her with a stable life and was able to send her to French schools. Hang was provided opportunities that most other Vietnamese people did not have access to because of the wealth that her family had. Though she was of Vietnamese descent, her wealth allowed her to not feel the same struggles that the majority of Vietnamese people underwent. Her privilege is further exemplified through her mother. My mother was an extravagant spender, and threw a lot of dinner parties for my father’s friends, the social elite (143). Her mother exemplifies the privilege that Hang lived under. Her mother’s actions show how her family really didn’t undergo the same hardships as other people. In fact, they are shown to perpetuate this hardship through the abuse of workers that worked for them (142). Overall, Hang’s class plays a key role in how she experiences life in French colonized Vietnam. 
Ultimately, Hang’s life was influenced by French colonialism in a multitude of ways such as her class in society, the culture she was exposed to, and the way the society treated her because of her race. It is important to recognize how all of these aspects intersect with each other to show the full extent of French colonialism. Though Hang was wealthy, she still faced hardships due to her lack of exposure to home culture and her Vietnamese identity. It is important to look at the intersectionality of all these issues to see how French colonialism not only affected Hang’s life but also the lives of other Vietnamese people.
Beyond those double sets of doors lied a battleground whose remnants told of the chaotic undertakings of young yet growing men and women. Walking forward past the apertures, one is introduced to those 2 infamous lanes where hundreds if not thousands would wait for eons to receive sustenance of the lowest quality. On those lines, the sounds of the maniacal younglings can be heard, from the cries of failed examinations to gossip of various affairs among the masses. After receiving food from either lanes’ warden (who would berate those who had not taken a fruit), the battlefield laid before the treacherous fools who dared to advance. Throughout the area laid circular monoliths which were fought over amongst the masses. There were no laws to abide by (aside from the actual school rules), the only thing that mattered was securing territory for oneself and their allies. The population would take drastic measures to acquire territory with some savages marking their territory with concoctions of the so-called food given to them. These concoctions would sway anyone, aside from bedlamites, from ever touching that monolith ever again. Once acquiring a monolith, the already insane become even more mad. The food becomes their playthings to be thrown, mashed, dropped, etc. Little regard is given to the starving families throughout the world as the masses try to impress their allies by throwing food   into the trash can from afar while embarrassing their foes (but really their allies again) by showering them in milk. The chaos did not stop at the food but manifested within the people themselves. Grand chases were a regular occurrence as allies would do a little bit of trolling to each other. Sometimes these chase scenes grew into actual battles, which would send echoes into the entire battlefield, silencing it. Oftentimes however, the ones from above came in and enacted their powers to seize the fighting and let the regular chaos ensue once more. Along with this, the masses played tumultuous games which resulted in an individual risking their (social) lives to entertain everyone else watching. However, despite the chaos entrenched within the battlegrounds, the memories forged strengthened the bonds amongst many allies. Through the 4 years of overbearing work, these grounds served as a place for people to achieve freedom. Ask anyone who grew up there, and they’ll tell you about their many tales from the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria. 
Part 1:
In Ella Braidwood’s The unbridled joy of queer bars, gay bars provide a community for LGTBQ+ people to feel safe from prejudice and violence against them. As the violence against them rises, these bars serve as an essential area for LGBTQ+ people to be their true selves. Braidwood writes,  I don't know where I would be without LGBTQ spaces. As a closeted teenager, Outrageous made me feel less alone: I used to stand on the edge of the dance floor in my plaid shirt - my way of saying I was gay without actually saying it - avoiding eye contact and nervously smiling at the floor. That place, my royal palace, showed me that I'd be all right, eventually (pg 5). Exploring one's own sexuality can be a time of chaos. It is a time of self-reflection and exploration that allows someone to understand themselves on a better level. Sadly, many in society view exploring sexuality as something wrong or unnatural which results in unprecedented judgment and violence against LGBTQ+ people. This judgement results in people becoming closeted, in fear of their safety if they were to reveal their true sexuality to those around them. However, Braidwood emphasizes how this is why places such as gay bars are essential. They serve as a place of safety and inclusion for LGBTQ+ people, allowing them judgment-free reign to explore their true identities. Similarly, the Stuyvesant cafeteria was a very chaotic place. The second someone set foot within it, they were greeted with the roars of hundreds of people. This chaos can initially be overwhelming, but people navigate through it to find their own locations or friend groups that allow them to be themselves. Though chaotic, the cafeteria was the place where many new friendships were formed, and these friendships allowed people to feel safe amidst the overwhelming disarray. Communities such as gaybars or friend groups served as a safe place for people. 
Part 2:
They knew that you don’t stop a river; you move over, through and with it. You follow its paths. You may step into it as often as you wish, but you do not stay (pg 28). This quote from Namwali Serpell’s River of Time quite literally discusses how rivers are unstoppable, and it is best not to get in its way. However, it also symbolizes how nature is something that humanity must follow rather than try to prevent. The Kariba Dam tried to prevent the flowing of a river, but it will soon collapse because it can only contain a river for so long. No matter how hard we try to stop nature, it will always overpower us. However, it is possible to build around nature or as Namwali puts it follow [nature’s] paths. The Stuyvesant cafeteria is an example of how humanity used technology to follow nature’s path. People are social animals. They are always trying to search for a way to find people to be their friends. The Stuyvesant cafeteria, cafeterias in general really, are a way that people allowed for the natural urge for social interaction. By quite literally cramming hundreds of people together in a limited space, people are sort of forced to find new people to talk to. It follows the path of human tendency to be social, and allows for it to take place in a safe (most of the time) environment. Cafeterias and dams, though at first glance may seem completely unrelated, represent a dichotomy of man’s attempt at dealing with nature. The Kariba Dam tried to fight against nature by preventing the natural flow of a river, while the Stuyvesant Cafeteria worked with nature to allow for the natural socialization between people.
Reflecting back at my 2.5 years (1.5 years sadly taken away by that damn virus) in the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria, I feel as if there was a feeling of solidarity that existed within it, that one could not find anywhere else in the school building. Ella Braidwood best discusses this solidarity in her essay The unbridled joy of queer bars, But what l see during those events is a determined unity: a sweaty community of lesbians, queer women, transgender and nonbinary people dancing together to Olivia Rodrigo. There is a solidarity between those bodies pressed together, our identities in harmony - a sea of low-fade haircuts, piercings, tattoos - when it feels like the world is trying to rip us apart (pg 3). There is a unique freedom and unity LGBTQ+ people in these bars feel when they are together in a crowded space. Everyone in that club is doing their own things, in their own world, yet they are all unified through that common desire to escape the outside world’s judgment. The cafeteria exhibits this same solidarity amongst everyone in there. Everyone sat with their own friend groups around one of the dozens of circular tables that sat throughout the cafeteria, worrying only about what was going on amongst themselves. Yet, I feel everyone was unified through their common desire to escape the harsh realities of attending Stuyvesant Highschool. The difficult exams, the overbearing amount of homework, the boring classes, and the deep-rooted competitiveness were experiences that everyone in Stuyvesant faced. The cafeteria provided an outlet for everyone to just let loose and be free from all the stress. This unified desire to be free from the burdens of highschool are what probably allowed students to do stupid things like the stupid kids they were. 
After the conference with Professor Mickelson, I realized how I wasn’t very clear with how the solidarity felt in gay bars could be felt in the cafeteria. I didn’t really nail what exactly allowed people to be so free and unified within the cafeteria. I tried my best to explain that within this revision of my essay. I felt I better explained how being together with people with a unified desire to do or escape something can be what brings together individuals who are seemingly in their own worlds. I feel this is what I tried to express in my first draft, but I didn’t really do too well of a job of putting it into words. I also tried to flow from Ella Braidwood’s essay and her concepts and viewing the cafeteria through that lens. I believe I should do a better job at this overall in my essay because as of right now, my essay reads like a comparison essay rather than a piece that flows between my own experiences and Ella Braidwood’s essay. After doing this revision, I think I have to restructure my entire essay to explain concepts better and better express the idea of viewing my own personal experiences in my place in the lens of the concepts of Ella Braidwood’s essay. I will probably try to focus my entire essay on the concept of solidarity instead of just the broad concept of community. Community was hard to try to express in the cafeteria because it’s such a broad concept. I might further emphasize the concept of solidarity using some personal retellings of events that happened in the cafeteria. I hope that by using these personal retellings I can further reinforce that idea of solidarity and freedom that existed within the cafeteria. Overall, there is a lot of work that I need to do for my final essay, and I cannot wait to see how the final piece turns out.
As I stepped through those large gray doors, I was greeted by the repugnant stench of school food, random assortments of litter scattered all over the floor, and the deafening screams of hundreds of wild teenagers. Though this seemed similar to the 9th circle of Hell to some people, to me, as I looked around, it felt like home. I walked towards the two lunch lines only to see hundreds of people who were waiting for their share of shitty lunch food. I decided that it wasn’t worth waiting on line, so I headed towards the dozens of circular tables scattered throughout the area. As I scouted the area I saw a sea of different heads, but I was trying to find a specific cluster of heads. I kept looking until I finally found them, sitting by that same table positioned by the window, where one could look down and view the mighty Hudson river as it crashed upon the piers. I yelled to them YOOO, and they all greeted me back as I approached their table. As I dapped them up, I noticed them bantering, debating, play-fighting, studying and doing what they normally do. At that moment, I realized how much I loved being here. My school turned my life into a never-ending nightmare of poem-writing, integrating, essay-writing and model creating. Yet, through this 4 year time of never-ending chaos and indecisiveness, the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria was what kept me going. After reading The unbridled joy of queer bars by Ella Braidwood, I was reminded of how significant the community of the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria was to myself and everyone else who went into it. In her essay, Ella Braidwood writes, ... LGBTQ clubs are like sanctuaries to me; pink-lit paradises, where I can forget about all of that while flailing around to Robyn and Muna. They are among the few places where I can kiss whom I want, knowing I won't get harassed. (pg 2). Ella Braidwood mentions how queer bars allowed her to express her true sexuality without fear of harassment from those around her. As she notes, Statistically, in recent years, LGBTQ people here have been less safe than ever. This makes queer bars all the more essential safe spaces which provide a community in which LGBTQ+ people can be their true selves. In a way, the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria provided that same safe space for myself and every other student there. Whenever my friends and I did anything stupid, we did not have to worry about what other people thought because we were just another group of stupid kids masked among hundreds of other stupid kids doing their own stupid things. Outside of the cafeteria, we couldn’t do anything stupid without being scolded at by a teacher or judged by people in the hallways. Inside the cafeteria, though, we were allowed to be ourselves, just as how Braidwood and the LGBTQ+ community could be themselves in queer bars. One of the best things about the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria was how it unified hundreds of different students into one large community. There were people from all sorts of different backgrounds, different experiences, and different interests. Yet everyone existed within the cafeteria in harmony (for the most part) because everyone shared that common pain of being a Stuyvesant Highschool student. The cafeteria allowed us to escape the harsh reality of boring classes, difficult exams and deep-rooted competitiveness, and allowed everyone to coexist within one large community. Ella Braidwood shares a similar unifying experience in queer bars when she writes, In recent years, our various LGBTQ identities have been pitted against each other. But what l see during those events is a determined unity: a sweaty community of lesbians, queer women, transgender and nonbinary people dancing together to Olivia Rodrigo. There is a solidarity between those bodies pressed together, our identities in harmony - a sea of low-fade haircuts, piercings, tattoos - when it feels like the world is trying to rip us apart (pg 3). Gay bars unified so many different people of so many different sexualities. This unified community that was created stood up to the outside world’s discrimination against these people. Ella Braidwood compared this feeling to that of a snowglobe. No matter how much you try to shake a snow globe, the particles inside of it remain unfazed. That's kind of how I feel inside queer spaces: protected from the outside world, no matter how much it tries to disrupt us (pg 2), Braidwood writes. A unified community can withstand whatever is thrown at it, whether that be discrimination from the outside world or simply just an overbearing amount of work from a highschool. The experiences Ella Braidwood went through at gay bars and the experiences I went through at the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria helped me realize the importance of community for everyone. According to Maria Cohut PhD in her article What are the benefits of being social?, she mentions how just the mere aspect of being face to face with other people can help us become resistant to stress and anxiety, help us develop better memories and live longer, happier lives. This is why it is almost essential for people to be able to socialize with others. The communities in both queer bars and the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria allowed this to happen. As Ella Braidwood says,  I don't know where I would be without LGBTQ spaces. As a closeted teenager, Outrageous made me feel less alone… (pg 5). Being with other people just like herself in queer bars allowed Ella to feel less alone, and in a place of belonging. I felt a very similar feeling everytime I stepped into that Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria. WIth hundreds of people surrounding me, I just felt like I was a part of something, and I was able to socialize with so many people there. Without the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria, highschool would have been a very isolating and depressing experience. Community can help people feel less lonely, and queer bars and my highschool cafeteria were some of the best ones to be in. Looking back after graduating from Stuyvesant Highschool, I’ve grown a new appreciation for the cafeteria. I never realized at those moments how important of a place the cafeteria was for me. I sort of just went there during my lunch or free periods to hang out with friends everyday. At the time I was oblivious to how impactful these daily cafeteria visits were. By hanging out with my friends in the cafeteria, I joined my own little community of people who shared the same interests as I did. We talked about basketball, school work, video games, anime, and the shared experiences of living under a brown household. That gray, round table acted like our own little community house where all of us just could chill. It was an escape from the hell that highschool was, and I am incredibly grateful for everything that happened and everyone I met in the cafeteria. Through all the rotting food on the floor and the terrible smell of teenagers who haven’t learned what shower is, the cafeteria and the community that it fostered became an invaluable part of my time at Stuyvesant. 
As I stepped through those large gray doors, I was greeted by the repugnant stench of school food, random assortments of litter scattered all over the floor, and the deafening screams of hundreds of wild teenagers. Though this seemed similar to the 9th circle of Hell to some people, to me, as I looked around, it felt like home. I walked towards the two lunch lines only to see hundreds of people who were waiting for their share of shitty lunch food. I decided that it wasn’t worth waiting in line, so I headed toward the dozens of circular tables scattered throughout the area. As I scouted the area I saw a sea of different heads, but I was trying to find a specific cluster of heads. I kept looking until I finally found them, sitting by that same table positioned by the window, where one could look down and view the mighty Hudson river as it crashed upon the piers. I yelled to them YOOO, and they all greeted me back as I approached their table. As I dapped them up, I noticed them bantering, debating, play-fighting, studying, and doing what they normally do. At that moment, I realized how much I loved being here. My school turned my life into a never-ending nightmare of poem-writing, integrating, essay-writing, and model-creating. Yet, through this 4 year time of never-ending chaos and indecisiveness, the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria was what kept me going. Reflecting back at my 2.5 years (1.5 years sadly taken away by that damn virus) in the Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria, I feel as if there was a feeling of solidarity that existed within it, that one could not find anywhere else in the school building. This feeling of solidarity can be found in other places throughout the world, including queer bars. Ella Braidwood best discusses this solidarity within queer bars in her essay The unbridled joy of queer bars, But what l see during those events is a determined unity: a sweaty community of lesbians, queer women, transgender and nonbinary people dancing together to Olivia Rodrigo. There is a solidarity between those bodies pressed together, our identities in harmony - a sea of low-fade haircuts, piercings, tattoos - when it feels like the world is trying to rip us apart (pg 3). There is unique freedom and unity LGBTQ+ people in these bars feel when they are together in a crowded space. Everyone in that club is doing their own things, in their own world, yet they are all unified through that common desire to escape the outside world’s judgment. The cafeteria exhibits this same solidarity amongst everyone in there. Everyone sat with their own friend groups around one of the dozens of circular tables that sat throughout the cafeteria, worrying only about what was going on amongst themselves. Yet, I feel everyone was unified through their common desire to escape the harsh realities of attending Stuyvesant Highschool. The difficult exams, the overbearing amount of homework, the boring classes, and the deep-rooted competitiveness were experiences that everyone in Stuyvesant faced. The cafeteria provided an outlet for everyone to just let loose and be free from all the stress. This unified desire to be free from the burdens of high school is what probably allowed students to do stupid things like the stupid kids they were. Ella Braidwood mentions in her essay, I'd forgotten how important Butch, Please! is to me, as a butch lesbian; what it feels like to wade into a crowded floor and see who I am reflected in the people around me (pg 3). Braidwood was able to see a piece of herself among the crowd while dancing inside queer bars, which in turn helped her, and everyone else there, to feel belonged. Every time I stepped inside the cafeteria and looked around, I saw bits of myself everywhere. I looked to the left and I’d see the nerdy part of me who was obsessed with video games like Valorant or Minecraft. I looked to the right of me and I’d see people who were passionately debating sports topics, something that I felt was a big part of who I am. I looked in front of me and I’d see people who just wanted to sleep, which is what I felt every day when attending this high school. Being surrounded by people just like me provides a relieving sense of comfort in an otherwise stressful environment. I felt like I could just be myself, without worrying about sticking out to those around me. In fact, everyone in the cafeteria probably felt the same way. No one could stick out because everyone was like everyone else in one way or another. Seeing ourselves in the crowd around us helps to contribute to the solidarity that the cafeteria and the queer bars provide. Looking back, there were virtually no other places in Stuyvesant that provided that same solidarity feeling that the cafeteria had. Hallways were usually too crowded and had classes going on all across them. The small little secret spaces like the back of the stage, the staircase located near the Hudson River, etc. were great private spaces but you lose that feeling of solidarity from the lack of people in these areas. The Stuyvesant Highschool cafeteria was the only place that provided that feeling of solidarity which led to people feeling free to be themselves. As Ella Braidwood puts it, There is something very beautiful in watching people come alive in a way we'd never do in the outside world(pg 4). Being in a place of solidarity helps people bring out their true selves. Inside the gay bars, Ella Braidwood and LGBTQ+ people were able to express their true sexuality. Inside the cafeteria, my friends and I acted like complete madmen doing stupid things for stupid reasons. We’d play dare games that had wild consequences like having to eat ghost peppers or going up to random students and convincing them to convert religions. My friends showed off their new fighting skills to everyone else, taking each other down with grapples and throwdowns. It was not just us though. Everyone around us looked so alive, and you’d really only see this part of them when they were here in the cafeteria. A feeling of solidarity can provide a sense of liberty and allow people to act like their true selves whether it be in gay bars or my high school cafeteria. The Stuyvesant cafeteria was a place I’d never expected to hold so much significance to me. I sort of just went there during my lunch or free periods to hang out with friends every day. At the time I was oblivious to how impactful these daily cafeteria visits were. By hanging out with my friends in the cafeteria, I joined my own little community of people who shared the same interests as I did. We talked about basketball, school work, video games, anime, and the shared experiences of living in a brown household. That gray, round table acted like our own little community house where all of us just could chill. It was an escape from the hell that high school was, and I am incredibly grateful for everything that happened and for everyone I met in the cafeteria. Through all the rotting food on the floor and the terrible smell of teenagers who haven’t learned what a shower is, the cafeteria and the community that it fostered became an invaluable part of my time at Stuyvesant.
magine yourself as an Eldian during the Great Titan War. Your fellow brothers and sisters are being massacred by the growing might of the Marley Empire. Do you continue to fight on for your people in a near impossible-to-win battle? Or do you decide to run away and save yourself and the people you love? Well, what if I said that you had no choice at the end of the day. Your king, Karl Fritz, took away whatever choice you had by erasing your memories, entrapping you within 3 walls on an island of man-eating monsters called Titans. Your freedom to make the choices to do what you wanted with your life was taken away by a coward who called themselves a ruler. No overbearing figure should make your choices for you, whether it be in the world of Attack on Titan or the real world. As technology continues to develop, it will impact our society greatly but some of these impacts may be more harmful than good. As a result, our government is confronted with the issue of whether to infringe upon the freedom of people to protect the people or respect the freedom of people and risk people in society being harmed. However, I say, that choice should not be left to the government but to the people themselves. I believe that it is almost impossible for a government to find the perfect balance between respecting an individual’s freedom while also protecting the safety of the people. The only solution to the dilemma of safety vs freedom is to let the people decide whether they are willing to give up their freedom to protect everyone or safeguard their freedom, for whatever reason they have. Attack on Titan explores the costs to achieve total freedom. The people of Eldia may have achieved freedom from the oppression of the Marley empire by being isolated away from the rest of the world, but in exchange, they live hollow lives, ignorant of the expansive world that surrounds them. In Sarah Seo’s What Cars Can Teach Us About New Policing Technologies, she explores how the new freedoms that new technologies provide can have dire consequences for society. Seo writes, One expert, speaking at a 1924 traffic conference at Yale University, claimed that ‘during the nineteen months of the world war it was estimated that the loss of life by highway traffic accidents in the United States was pretty nearly twice as great as our loss of life through the war itself’ (2). The new freedom that automobiles provided to people in terms of traveling to new places quickly had the consequence of an innumerable number of people dying due to road accidents. This same principle also applies to newer technologies such as the Internet. Consider the proliferation of doxing, fake news, hate speech, and child porn on social media, which can undermine individual security as well as our democracy (5), Seo writes. The internet provides the freedom for people to communicate with each other over long distances instantaneously, sharing and learning new information, and providing platforms for people to share their voices. However, with the freedom to communicate and share almost anything, illicit media will inevitably spread and harm large numbers of people. The freedom that even future technologies will provide can have consequences that we cannot currently imagine. However, the solution to mitigating the negative impacts of technology is not by unwillingly infringing the freedom of the people. The consequences of Karl Fritz forcefully imposing his will upon the people was a violation of their freedom and only led to more oppressive practices down the line in Attack on Titan. To safeguard the truth and protect the people from the outside world, the current government of the kingdom within the walls has secret police who watch over the populace and go after anyone who may know too much. They believe that what they are doing is for the benefit of the people because if the truth is released, it would result in widespread chaos and paranoia. Seo brings up a similar concept that happens in the real world, During the Cold War, for example, the FBI’s COINTELPRO spied on and sought to neutralize dissenters from the established political order said to be a threat to American security, such as members of the Communist Party and activists in the civil rights movement, including Martin Luther King, Jr (6). It is eerie how innocent people who should have the freedom to hold their political views are knocked down by the government themselves in the name of protecting the populace. This is an overstepping of government boundaries, and a clear oppressive motion on the freedom of peoples. Seo further adds by writing, Justice Antonin Scalia dissented in Maryland v. King, arguing that gathering DNA samples from felony arrestees—from those who had not yet been charged and convicted of a crime—was a significant intrusion into their privacy (7). The government collecting a database of people’s fingerprints, even of those who haven’t committed a crime yet, cites once again an overstepping of government boundaries. A person’s fingerprints being placed on a criminal database creates a bias towards them in future incarcerations, even if they were innocent. If total freedom can result in dire consequences for society and if the overstepping of government boundaries can lead to the freedom of the people being oppressed, is there any way to truly find balance? Experience is composed of feeling and thought. Human feeling is not a succession of discrete sensations; rather memory and anticipation can wield sensory impacts into a shifting stream of experience so that we may speak of a life of feeling as we do of a life of thought (3), Yi Fu Tuan writes in Experiential Perspectives. Tuan discusses how experience consists of the various thoughts, sensations, and feelings we take in as we live our lives. These experiences are what mold us into becoming the people that we are today. Tuan mentions, Intelligence is manifest in different types of achievement. One is the ability to recognize and feel deeply about the particular (11). Our intelligence is what allows us to feel and think different things regarding an issue. Since we all grew up taking in different experiences, our views end up differing from one another. I could care less whether a government looks at my data because I believe that I have nothing to hide from anyone. However, someone else could have experienced how the government can oppress the freedom of someone which caused them to reject any sort of government interference with their online data. An Eldian who has experienced the truth of what resides outside the walls can believe that their government is oppressing them and that they need to fight back against them. However, another Eldian who is ignorant of the truth could just want to live out the rest of their days in peace within the walls. Going back to Seo’s example, someone who has grown up around a lot of American propaganda and patriotism in their life could believe that the FBI is doing a good thing by going after people in the Communist party or Civil Rights Movement. On the other hand, someone who is a part of these very organizations could believe that their freedom of expression is being infringed upon by the government. No matter what happens, there will always be people who share differing views from one another regarding any issue due to the different experiences that we’ve all had growing up. This is what makes it difficult, if not impossible, for our government to balance providing safety while also respecting the freedom of people. However, why look toward the government to solve this issue? If the government can't find the right balance between providing safety and respecting freedom, then it should be left up to the people to dictate what they want. I believe that since everyone has their individual views on this issue, they should be the ones to make the choice. In the case of Eldia, Karl Fritz should have provided the choice to people on whether they wanted to run away or stay and fight in the war. Though he may believe that what he did was for the betterment of the people, it resulted in his people being ignorant and oppressed for centuries while also forcing them to live hollow lives. In the case of the internet, the government should be openly transparent and give people the freedom to choose whether they want the government to access/influence their data or not. There will be people who are willing to give up a part of their freedom to help safety on the Internet. On the other hand, there will be people who do not want the government accessing their information, for any reason that they have. In the case of the FBI going after communists and civil rights activists, the communists and activists should have the freedom to freely express their political views and they should have the choice of whether they want to cooperate with the FBI or not. I do not believe this is a perfect solution, but I believe it is the solution that aligns with what I believe is the duty of the government, which is to protect the freedom of the people. There is no need to find a balance as long as the government offers a choice to the people on what they want to do. 
Entrenched within Rockefeller Park is a bench area that is home to Tom Otterness’ The Real World Sculptures, a set of bizarre bronze statues scattered throughout the entire area. At what I believe to be the center of it all appears to be half of a dead giant human’s face with what appears to be a stream of blood, full of money and… footprints? Even stranger is the pair of tiny people appearing to be making love inside the opening of the dead human head… Moving on, the stream of blood, money, and footprints runs throughout the entirety of this seating area in Rockefeller park. This stream appears to be what powers this mini-civilization of tiny people. All of these tiny people have that same distinct smile on their faces, which gives off very mischievous vibes. These people partake in an assortment of different activities throughout the park. Some of them are seen interacting with bizarre creatures. One of them is looking at a strange bird with both of them unaware of the large cat sneakily approaching them as a chained-up dog barks at them. Some of them appear to be playing chess on one of those marble chess tables seen in almost every NYC park ever. Some of them have even chained up a cat and appear to be taking the cat somewhere (presumably prison) on what appears to be giant human-rat police officers. However, at the center of their civilization is a giant house on top of a huge pile of money which arises from what is presumably a pool of that giant human’s blood. Inside the house, some tiny people appear to be celebrating and having fun. These people, however, are blatantly unaware of the giant wiggly creature that appears to be toppling their house down, with only a few tiny people trying to stop its terror. Amidst all this chaos, one can only really ask, how is this the real world? When I imagine the real world I think of the mundane, repetitive nature of everyday life where we do nothing but feed into the capitalist system that we were born into. I do not think of giant cut-off heads, tiny people rolling a gigantic penny or weird rats with human faces wearing police uniforms carrying a chained-up cat. What do these tiny people represent? Why are they obsessed with the money that is pouring out of the giant head? Why do they interact with the animals? At first glance, the statues seem to just raise a bunch of questions to their viewers. However, with closer examination, an actual meaning seems to form from the chaos. Rockefeller park is a tiny pocket of greenery located within the monotonous gray of downtown Manhattan. Cars are always on the streets spewing out toxic gasses as they are being used. Skyscrapers tower over the concrete sidewalks, littered with heaps of trash, that millions of people walk along daily. Even in the Hudson river nearby, boats are always seen sailing along it. Wall Street, the heart of human capitalist greed, is just a couple of streets down from Rockefeller Park. Tom Otterness was trying to do something by placing these sculptures in a place that is so dominated by human presence. With this context in mind, patterns start to emerge from his statues. 4 elements always appear in every single one of the statues in Otterness’ work: humans (the tiny people), animals (various animals like cats, dogs, and weird rats), money, and oddly enough, footprints. The statues always depict tiny people taking control of animals or being obsessed over money, leaving footprints behind in the process. With all these elements in mind, Tom Otterness’ real world starts to take shape. Tom Otterness depicts how our world today is dominated by humanity through its hubris. However, that same greed and ego are what can ultimately bring about our demise. Saying that humanity has dominated the world, almost feels like an understatement. In a research paper by Peter M. Vitousek and co-scientists fittingly called Human Domination of Earth’s Ecosystems, they truly depict the scale of control that humanity has over the planet. Between one-third and one-half of the land surface has been transformed by human action; the carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere has increased by nearly 30 percent since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution; more atmospheric nitrogen is fixed by humanity than by all natural terrestrial sources combined; more than half of all accessible surface fresh water is put to use by humanity; and about one-quarter of the bird species on Earth have been driven to extinction (1). The insane part about this paper is that it was written in 1997. In the time between now and then, humanity has grown substantially. There are two billion more people on this planet, our technology has gotten better and more powerful, thousands of species have probably gone extinct, and climate change only continues to worsen as an issue. Otterness depicts this in his statues through the tiny people dominating the various animals that exist in the sculptures. We see them interact with all the various animals such as birds, snakes, cats, dogs, and weird rat creatures. In almost every instance of these, we see these tiny people taking control of or attempting to take control of the animals. In one of the statues, the tiny people are seen taking away a chained cat using rats with human faces. In another statue, we see a human forcing two rat creatures to carry away metallic items. With their seeming omnipresence in Otterness’ sculptures, these tiny people are a clear representation of the domination of humanity over its environment. The tiny people took over the environment of the small little seating area in Rockefeller, while humanity took over the entire planet. However, what drives both humanity and the tiny people to be so dominant over their domains? Humanity is driven to grow and conquer through its collective hubris, defined as a grandiose sense of self, characterized by overconfidence, arrogance, contempt towards the advice and criticism of others (Sadler-Smith 1). We are driven by a belief that this world was made for us to conquer and dominate. In the past, our predecessors were incentivized to expand onward onto new lands to grow as nations. We believed we could take over the world, so that is what we pushed ourselves to do, destroying ecosystems and each other in the process. However, with the rise of capitalist ideologies throughout the world, we are driven by economic and power incentives. Sadler-Smith states in his research paper Human Hubris, Anthropogenic Climate Change, and an Environmental Ethic of Humility, Industrialised nations and business organizations have been the main drivers of economic growth and prosperity over the past three centuries (2). We want to become the richest, we want to become the most powerful, and we are willing to do whatever it takes to do this. This can be seen no better than through the current climate crisis. The discovery of fossil fuels such as coal and oil allowed us to grow exponentially as a society through the rise of various new technologies achievable only because of fossil fuels. However, with the rise of fossil fuels arose dire environmental issues that we as a collective species decided to ignore in favor of economic growth. Sadler-Smith best put it when he writes, A climate emergency has materialised out of humanity’s Icarus-like unchecked ambition and overconfidence in the power of its technologies. This is analogous to a climatic Frankenstein effect, and the problem has been amplified by disregarding the warnings from climate scientists that stretch back many decades (3). Tom Otterness addresses humanity’s collective hubris in the sculpture depicting a giant house with tiny people inside being toppled over by a beast that some tiny people are trying to stop. In this sculpture, we see a giant house resting upon money with tiny people residing in it. The tiny people inside it are celebrating by drinking wine, dancing, and being joyous possibly at their monetary success. Their collective hubris makes them completely unaware of the crisis quite literally outside their doorstep, depicted in the form of a bizarre-looking monster with multiple heads pressing down against the house. If nothing more is done to stop the monster, the entire house will collapse, killing all the tiny people inside it. The tiny people’s possible demise stemming from their overconfidence that arose from their monetary gain is very reflective of humanity as a whole. What is the real world? Through Tom Otterness’ eyes, the real world is humanity’s complete domination of the world. We have changed the world in almost every aspect for the sake of monetary gain. Yet, our collective hubris, or overconfidence, that stemmed from that made us ignore the negative effects of all of our actions. Through his bizarre little bronze statues, Otterness was able to display what the real world was. Most people, including myself throughout high school, people will probably just see his statues as nothing more than tiny people interacting with a bunch of different animals. It is ironic, how our hubris is what is most likely preventing us from trying to comprehend Tom Otterness’ message. Hopefully, people will be able to look past their hubris to truly understand Tom Otterness’ work or even better, to properly address the incoming crisis at our doorstep. The question now is, what can we do to address the problem? In the Arts of Noticing, Anna Lowenhaupt Tsing points out how humanity is always focused on progressing forward and advancing as a civilization rather than taking a look around us. Progress is embedded, too, in widely accepted assumptions about what it means to be human. Even when disguised through other terms, such as agency, consciousness, and intention, we learn over and over that humans are different from the rest of the living world because we look forward… (21). All around the world, we are always focused on the next new thing. The next new phone to be released, the newest AI to be developed (Chatbot GPT is pretty cool though), the newest cars, the newest… anything. Humanity is almost indoctrinated at a young age that we must progress forward because we are the most advanced, most intelligent species on the planet. Humanity is so blinded by our collective hubris that it fails to take in everything happening at the moment. Most people will have failed to notice the total extent to which our progress has altered the world’s ecosystems, not even in the scope of how to fix everything. Vitousek and coworkers put it best in the conclusion of their research paper, we are changing Earth more rapidly than we are understanding it (5). If humanity wants to fix its mistakes, it has to begin to take notice of everything and approach a new way of thinking. If human hubris is what is bringing about the utter destruction of the environment, environmental humility is what will help us fix it. Environmental humility pays close attention to ecosystems and not just our own desires’ and affords us a self-restraint which places a brake on our ambitions (Sadler-Smith 9). Humanity must stop being so entranced by the constant desire for our progress, and take notice of everything going around them. We must be willing to not look at ourselves as greater than everything else in nature, but instead as a part of the various ecosystems, making it essential for us to take care of them. If we destroy the ecosystems that we are intertwined with, then we are just destroying ourselves as well. Trading our hubris mindset for one of humility will allow us to recognize the various mistakes we have made as a civilization and take the proper steps to fix them. If we want to implement this mentality into society, we must change various aspects of our systems. Sadler-Smith discusses how the consumer is one of the most powerful tools to drive economic ideologies away from constant progress and toward the idea of taking steps to fix our current ecological disasters. Consumers have to be educated about humanity’s hubris and adopt a mentality of environmental humility to cure our hubris. By doing this, consumers will push businesses and whole economies to shift towards an environmental humility mindset. However, we must act soon, if we want to avoid further going down a path of further ecological and environmental destruction. Tom Otterness’ The Real World Sculptures located in Rockefeller park are a display of humanity’s hubris and the consequences of that mindset. Being placed within Manhattan, a perfect presentation of humanity’s domination of the environment, nearby one of the most influential economic districts in the nation, Wall Street, it is clear this is Tom’s way of sending a message. To the various consumers who decide to take notice of his statues, I believe he is sending a message that we need to be better. We need to avoid the same fate that the tiny people inside the house will inevitably face, by adopting a collective mindset of environmental humility rather than our current desire for constant economic and technological progress. Hopefully, by stepping within Tom Otterness’ constructed real world, people can take notice of what is going on in our own real world and humble themselves to fix its problems.
Name: Armineb
Age: 25
Occupation: Rapper
Relationship Status: Single
Bio: Up and coming rapper from Astoria, NY. Gonna feature on Kendrick's next album
Interaction: We keep it real with people
Explanation: For our name, we just combined our names because we felt it was a very unique name for people to remember. Our age is 25 because its a good middle age and it is within the range of people in the show. Our occupation is rapper because hip hop has a big presence on mainstream culture, and a lot of people can relate to it (including us). Our relationship status is single because it allows to be more flirty with people which can seem more attractive. We are both from the Astoria area of NYC, and we use Kendrick's name in our bio because he has a big presence within mainstream culture. More people would want to get to know us if we have a connection to Kendrick (or any famous person in general). We want to keep it real with people because when celebrities are too hollywood they seem less likeable and approachable. Many popular figures who keep it real with audiences are widely liked and gain even more popularity. 
Everybody is incredibly invested into their team, a lot of people gamble on their team or on teams to win games.
Open to everyone but people are a lot more invested if they watch games 
Arguments about who is the better player or team, people just straight hating or loving a team/player, people making fun of a group of fans who are obsessed with a player(Lebron), widely understood memes and references (sometimes breaking into the mainstream)
A lot of language that is widely used in the community that do not make much sense without context
Some weird stat acronyms: VORP, TS, LeBron
Moves in the NBA: Sham God, Euro Step, Jelly, English, Saucing Up
NBA Plays: ATO, SLOB
Memes: Killian Hayes, What Happened to the Game I Love?, LePookie Bear, etc.
Huge influence on millions of people worldwide
The topic I would like to research is the abolition of prisons.
Three Questions I am interested in researching regarding the topic are:
What is the history/purpose of the prison system?
Can it be reformed or should we pursue its abolition?
What are alternatives that we should pursue if we did abolish prisons?
A book that I believe would help incredibly with this research is Are Prisons Obsolete? by Angela Davis.
Problems that I am currently going through:
Essay Structure
How to go about conducting additional research for this topic
Palestine originally received its name from when it was a part of the Roman empire. Originally called Palestina
During roman and byzantine rule, it was an imperial province
After roman rule, the region was heavily influenced by the development of the Arab and muslim worlds in the region
Many muslim empires aspired to control the region because of its religious significance, fertility, and strategic location
The Ottoman period of rule over Palestine was incredibly significant
Ruled over Palestine for 400 years 
Legal system of Israel, religious court records, land registry and architecture all represent Ottoman influence over the region
Population under Ottoman rule:
Less than 5% Jewish
10-15% Christian
Remaining is Sunni Muslim
Jewish communities around the world saw Palestine as a holy land
Some Jewish people made a pilgrimage to Palestine prior to Zionism as a religious duty
Prior to Zionism, it was mostly Christians who wanted to settle Jewish people in Palestine
There is a popular Israeli narrative that states that the region was mostly Jewish during Ottoman rule and that by the start of the 19th century Palestine was an empty land. It was stated that imperial projects from the Ottoman rule robbed the land of its nutrients causing it to become a desert. 
Narrative is completely untrue, even according to Israeli scholars
Over the past few centuries, Palestine was a thriving Arab society with a mostly muslim, rural population. Had thriving urban centers as well
Palestinian people had freedom to interact with other parts of the Ottoman people. Helped shape Palestinian culture
Palestine was developing long before the arrival of Zionist settlers. Developed a lot of its coastal towns and ports with its trade connections to Europe
Rich agricultural industry, small towns and historical cities supported the population of half a million Palestinians prior to Zionist arrival
Population by the start of the 19th century was mostly muslim and had a small minority of Jewish people. 
Jewish people in the region at the time did not support the Zionist movement
Majority of Palestinians lived in villages in the countryside (1000 of them)
Elite Palestinians lived in coastal towns, mountains and inner plains
The concept of a nation was introduced to the region of Palestine by American missionaries, who were trying to convert people to Christianity and give people the idea of self determination
Educated elite in Palestine, along with other Arabian regions, used this idea of a nation to demand more autonomy and then independence from the Ottoman empire
Secularization during process of nationalization
Many christians enjoy the idea of a national identity based upon a shared territory, language, history and culture
Many Muslim-Christian societies were formed throughout Palestine by the end of the WWI through the working together of national Christians and Muslim elites
Throughout the rest of the Arab world, Jewish people joined a lot of similar types of societies that called for a united national identity. Would have happened in Palestine if not for Zionism
Palestinian nationalism was on the rise prior to 1882
Patriotic feelings, local loyalties, arabism, religious sentiments and higher education/literacy were the drivers of nationalism
Modernization, collapse of the Ottoman empire and European conquest also played a role
Later on during the rise of zionism, feelings of nationalism grew stronger
Palestine was being recognized as a cultural and geographical entity and then later a political one
No official Palestinian state but the cultural location of Palestine was very clear
Palestinians spoke their own dialects, had their own customs and rituals, and appeared on maps of the world as a country called Palestine
During the 19th century, Palestinian elites wanted independence from the Ottoman empire
Wanted to join a United Syria or a United Arab State
Sykes Picot Agreement
Split up the former Ottoman empire into zones of direct/indirect control for Britain and France
Because the area was divided, a more independent nationalism grew amongst Palestinians 
Palestine saw itself as an independent Arab state
If not for the rise of Zionism, Palestine would have gone through modernization and growth which was already being started 
In 1918, with the onset of British rule, north and south divisions of Palestine were more connected
South Beirut, Nablus and Jerusalem were united together through familial connections and a shared border
All had their own major dialect, customs, folklore, and traditions
In 1923, new borders created by Britain helped to build a stronger sense of national identity amongst the Palestinians but also allowed the Zionist movement to geographically conceptualize Israel


Zionism
Zionism was first a Christian project of colonization before it became a Jewish one
Several prominent Christian figures throughout Europe mention the idea of having Jewish people leave Europe altogether
Believed that it was impossible for Jewish people to assimilate into Christian Europe
Napoleon was influenced by this ideology, he tried to recruit the support of jewish people in Palestine and promised them their own state
These initial religious and prophetic beliefs were used as instruments in ideas for an actual colonization and dispossession program in Britain in the 1820s
Powerful theological and imperial movement that wanted to return Jews to Palestine to take it over and convert it into a Christian entity
A lot of notable figures from the west pushed this idea: John Adams, Lord Shafesbury, David Hartley
Shafesbury and prime minister Lord Palmerston pushed heavily for this project
Believed that Britain had to support Jews in their retaking of Palestinian land
Funded Jews to travel to Ottoman Palestine
Also used to have stronghold of Britain influence in the declining Ottoman empire
Tried to convince Ottoman empire to allow for Jewish settlers because it would help to prevent the collapse of the empire Jewish wealth
Anti Semitism and British imperialism main motivators
British support of a Jewish state was a form of Proto-Zionism
Layed out all the ingredients for the future conceptualization of modern Zionism
First British consulate in Jerusalem opened in 1838
Informally invited Jewish people to move to Palestine, promising protection, attempts to convert to Christ
James Finn was a consul who was Islamophobic, disliked by the Palestinians, but was a notable figure in Zionist history
Finn was backed by churches in Jerusalem, worked to establish a western presence
German Temple Pietist movement
Rebuild a Jewish temple in Jerusalem
Move to Palestine to precipitate the second coming of the Messiah
Not supported by many Christian orgs, but some royal Prussian court and Anglican theologians in Britain supported them
Templars persecuted by established churches
Moved to palestine
Founded first colony on Mount Carmel in Haifa in 1866
Continued to expand their settlement until kicked out by Israel in 1948
Zionism takes root in Europe
Movement asserting that the problems of the Jews of Europe would be solved by colonizing Palestine and creating a Jewish state
Spread throughout Europe in the 1860s
Founder: Theodor Herzl
Saw the anti-semitic persecution of Jewish people in Russia and how deep rooted Anti-Semitism was in parts of Europe with the rise of Anti-Semitic nationalism
First Aliyah, first wave of Zionist immigration to Palestine in 1904
Second Aliyah (1905-1914), surprisingly frustrated socialists and communists who turned to zionism to avoid anti-semitic rhetoric in Europe
Immigration began before international recognition of the Zionist movement
Majority of Jewish immigrants settled in Palestinian towns with some cultivating land bought from Palestinians and Arab landowners
Local palestinians felt that this immigration will have negative impacts on their society because of further British influence in the region
Zionism becomes more and more popular amongst Jewish and Christian people in Europe. Seen as acts of return and redemption
Created an alliance that turned the idea into an actual colonial project that hurt the native people of Palestine
Zionism was used as a strategic tool by Britain to further their geopolitical interests in the region. Britain supported Jewish colonization and the construction for a Jewish state while also providing military support for them
Zionism, Protestant millenarianism and British imperialism all came together to raveage Palestine from 1918 to 1948
Question of whether Israeli Jews descended from Jewish people expelled by Rome 2000 years ago
Identity of a Jewish people pushed by Zionists used to oppress and destroy the native land of Palestians and Palestiniains themselves
Israel tries to assert itself as the representative of all Jewish people and that it is doing all this oppression on Jewish people’s behalf
Large movements of Jewish people fighting against Zionism especially today
Zionism is born
Born out of two impulses
Search for safety amongst widespread anti semitism in Central and Eastern Europe
Emulate other national movements
Jewish Enlightenment movements
Hebrew was revived
Jewish education expanded into more universal study of science, literature and philosophy
Harbingers of Zionism
Redefined Judaism into a national movement
Colonize Palestine to return the Jews to the ancient homeland
Became more popular after pogroms in Russia in 1881
The Lovers of Zion first political program sent a few hundred Jewish people into Palestine to build new colonies
Herzl
At first pushed for the integration of Jewish people into European society
Became a journalist, saw how anti semitic Europe was and lost hope. Pushed for Jewish state in Palestine
Different responses to Zionism by prominent Rabbis and religious figures
Dismissed as a form of secularization and modernization
Would raise questions about Jewish loyalty to their own nation
Different solutions
Further entrenchment into Judaism and traditional beliefs (such as what muslims did)
Assimilate into non Jewish lifestyle
Reform Movement
Secular Jews tried to tie everyday life into religion which became the reform movement
At first rejected the idea of saying Judaism and Zionism are one in the same, rejected nationalism
Shifted stances when Israel was created
New Reform movement in the US pledged allegiance to Israel and Zionism in 1999 but had strong connections prior
Split because reformists all did not support the idea of a Jewish state
Many reformists rejected zionism entirely
German Reformists say they are Germans and remove mentions of Eretz Israel from prayers
Conferences say that they don’t consider themselves a nation
Many prominent leaders say the idea of zionism in general is nonsense and that they are a religious people who are at home in their current country
Different political views on Zionism
Liberalism: Zionism did not provide the answer; Jewish people need to display loyalty to their homeland and assimilate as citizens
Worked in USA and UK but not in other countries
Modern day: Many liberal Jewish people do not see zionism as the right answer
Socialism: Bundists believed that a socialist revolution was a far better solution to Jews than Zionism. Zionism was a form of escapism
Zionism contributed to anti Semitism
Jewish people should seek a place in societies that cherish human and civil rights
However, began to support the existence of Israel
Jewish Political and Economic Elite: Herzl far removed from reality and undermined the work already done for integration and fighting against anti-Semitism
Orthodox Jews: Viewed Zionism as meddling with God’s will to retain the Jews in exile until the coming of the Messiah
Zionism did not gain much traction as a movement until Herzl’s death and UK support of it
Religious Zionism is pushed by rabbis
Religious duty of Jewish people, not just nationalist, to colonize Palestine and cultivate its land (no mention of Native peoples already living there)
It is fulfilling the prophecies of the Prophets and advancing the coming of the Messiah
Wanted to secularize the Orthodox Jews in Europe, and said that they could only get redemption by colonizing Palestine
Jewish people cannot be European but must become European in a land that is not their own
Slide 1:
The name Palestina was given to the region we currently know as Israel and Palestine when the Romans ruled over the region. Palestina existed as an imperial province during Roman and then Byzantine rule. 


Slide 2:
After Roman and Byzantine rule, the region became heavily influenced by the Arabic and Muslim worlds in the region. Many Arabic and Muslim empires wanted to control the region of Palestina because of its religious significance, since it was the location of the Al Aqsa mosque which was the third holiest location in Islam, fertility, and strategic location. This was a big reason as to why the Ottoman empire took over the region in 1517. Palestine was a part of the Ottoman empire for over 400 years. The influence that the Ottomans had over the region can even be felt today in the architecture, legal structure of Israel, and land registry.


Slide 3:
A narrative that has been pushed by the Israeli government and by some Israeli scholars is that Palestine was an empty land by the 19th century because of imperial Ottoman projects. These projects, they said, removed all the nutrients from the ground of Palestine creating a desert in the region. It was then up to Zionist settlers to come to the land and breathe new life into it. However, this narrative has been thoroughly contested and debunked by several historians, even Israeli ones. 


Slide 4:
Through their research, historians concluded that the land of Palestine was a THRIVING society with rich, fertile lands and home to over 500,000 people. The Palestinians consisted of 5% Jewish people, 10-15% Christians, and 80-85% Muslims near the end of the 19th century. The population mostly lived in rural villages that numbered to almost 1000. However, richer Palestinians often lived near the coast, in the mountains or more inland. Their time in the Ottoman empire allowed the Palestinians to interact with a variety of different cultures. They developed their own customs, rituals and culture throughout the centuries. 


Slide 5:
The concept of a nation was introduced to the region of Palestine by American missionaries who arrived in the region. These missionaries spread the idea of self determination within Palestine. As a result, the educated elite Palestinians took these ideas and used them to demand more autonomy from the Ottoman empire. This idea of nation then developed a new sense of nationalism amongst the Palestinian people. Nationalism grew amongst the Palestinian people due to increased literacy, Arabism, and religious sentiments. Palestinian nationalism was further strengthened with the arrival of Zionist settlers to their native lands. They were afraid of the potential consequences that an increased Zionist presence would have on their land and themselves as a people.


Slide 6:
During the 19th century, this growing feeling of nationalism grew into Palestinian elites working to separate the region of Palestine away from the Ottoman empire. There were ideas of Palestine becoming a part of Syria, or even the formation of a United Arab States. Britain and France planned the breakup of the Ottoman empire into zones of influence and control during the Sykes Picot agreement of 1916. As a result, the region would fall under international control. This separation into zones created a more independent form of Palestinian nationalism. The regions of South Beirut, Jerusalem, and Nablus all developed strong connections with each other due to familial ties and shared borders. The region shared its own major dialects, traditions, customs and folklores. In 1923, Britain’s Mandate for Palestine created new borders for Palestine which created an even stronger national identity for Palestine. However, this also had the consequences of allowing Zionists to conceptualize the new state of Israel.


Introduction:
Welcome everybody! Today we are gathered here today to discuss how NYU's Tandon School of Engineering is complicit in the devastation ongoing throughout the world through its ties to the United States military and other horrific organizations such as the NYPD. We believe it is incredibly important to educate NYU students who may not be fully aware of the full extent that NYU Tandon has ties to the military industrial complex. As we speak, millions of people in Gaza and in the Congo are undergoing mass death and life-threatening conditions and our military and militant companies are FULLY COMPLICIT. We wanted to highlight their struggle, to help people understand what they are going through and why they are going through it, and what people can do to help. We hope that today you come out of this teach in with a far greater understanding of these conflicts and US participation in them. Ultimately, we hope that you join the millions if not billions throughout the globe fighting for the freedom of the people in these nations. So, to start off


Tandon Ties to the Military
Slide 1 (Title Slide):
I want to evaluate the full extent to which NYU Tandon has ties to the military industrial complex and other oppressive organizations


Slide 2 (What is a militant company?):
I defined a militant company as one that was on the top 100 defense contractors in the United States during the year 2022. All of these companies received $350 million or more from the Department of Defense in military contracts throughout the year. With these contracts, companies developed technologies and equipment for the military to use such as warplanes, bombs, missile systems, AI target tracking, and etc. The largest contractor in 2022 was Lockheed Martin which received over $45 BILLION in contracts with the military. The smallest contractor in 2022 was Olin Corp which still received over $384 MILLION in contracts with the military.


Slide 3 (Tandon's Partners):
NYU Tandon defines a partner as a company that gains access to an online platform created by Tandon to allow employees to pursue educational opportunities. These employees are also connected with knowledgeable faculty and like minded individuals from across the globe. NYU Tandon is partnered with several militant companies. Let's briefly go over each one of them


Slide 4 (Northrop Grummann)
Northrop Grumman received over 13 BILLION dollars in from the Department of Defense in 2022. With that money, they construct various military weapons and vehicles such as the Sa-Ar 5, which Israelis currently using to bomb Palestinian homes in its genocide against Gaza.


Slide 5 (Booz Hamilton)
Booz Allen Hamilton received over 2 BILLION dollars from the Department of Defense in 2022. They are a for profit spying organization that has collaborated with the US government and other governemnts to carry out spying operations throughout the world. Some of the countries that Booz Allen Hamilton has collaborated with include Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. 


Slide 6 (IBM)
International Business Machines Corp or IBM provides the US military with a variety of services from IT services to data security to the development of chips for new Department of Defense weapons. In 2022, it received over $439 million in funding. Last year, IBM developed a new chip prototype that could potentially allow the Department of Defense to better utilize artificial intelligence on the battlefield. We have seen the use of AI on battlefields so far in Gaza and Ukraine, and the pinpoint accurate destruction that AI weapons can produce is horrifying. Who knows what destruction is possible with even further development of this technology.


Slide 7 (Humana)
In 2022, Humana received over $7 BILLION dollars in funding from the Department of Defense. It is a for profit healthcare company that provides healthcare to military personnel mostly situated in the US East. However, with over 30% of veterans younger than the age 45 not under a healthcare provider in the US in 2022, the question over how effective a for profit corporation is with providing healthcare to veterans comes into question. 


Slide 8 (Microsoft) 
In 2022, Microsoft received over $400 million dollars in contracts from the Department of Defense. However, the year before in 2021, it received a $21 billion dollar contract over 10 years with the Department of Defense to build 120,000 units of the hololens. The Hololens, according to the Department of Defense and Microsoft, will enhance soldier combat capability on the battlefield. (add a concluding sentence)


Slide 9 (FBI and NYPD)
NYU Tandon is also partnered with the FBI and the NYPD, providing the same services to their agents. We will dive deeper into these organizations later into this teach in.


Slide 10 (Labs Funded by Military and Militant Companies)
Tandon hosts a variety of different labs that participate in their own research. Several of these labs are funded directly by the US military or by militant companies. Here are all of the labs with which agencies and companies are funding them.


Slide 11 (Tandon Sponsors) 
NYU Tandon sponsors are companies or organizations that collaborated with Tandon to host events such as the Career Fair, Tandon's yearly CSAW, and other events. Organizations that have been participants in Tandon events include the US Army, the NYPD, the US Navy, BAE Systems, IBM, Northrop Grummann and Jacobs Engineering.  In addition to these events, some sponsors participate in Tandon's boards (such as the Enterprise and Sustainability boards) which include Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, and IBM. Often times, as a result of these collaborations, many Tandon students end up becoming hired by many of these companies which we will see in the next slide.


Slide 12 (Companies Hiring Tandon Students) 
NYU Tandon proudly declares that several of its top employers include several militant companies including Lockheed Martin, General Dynamics, Northrop Grumman, Microsoft, Booz Allen Hamilton, Jacobs Engineering, IBM, and Boeing. These students then go on to participate in the development of military technologies which have and are currently being used in the oppression of peoples throughout the world. So far, we have covered how Tandon is tied to the military and other organizations. We need to dive deeper to fully realize the utter destruction that the US military has caused worldwide.


US Military Oppression
Slide 1 (Title)
The United States military over the past century has been the SINGLE GREATEST roadblock of worldwide human progress, and it isn't even close. The United States military and the companies supporting it have been behind some of the greatest mass deaths in the past century and even in our modern day. It has barred countries from becoming truly independent and free for the sake of protecting the profits of western corporations. I do not make these claims lightly, let's look into what exactly it has done


Slide 2(Deaths)
Since the end of World War II, the United States has been responsible for the deaths of AT LEAST 20 to 30 million people worldwide. This is either through direct massacres of countries, supporting coups in countries that resulted in the rise to power of GENOCIDAL dictators, or helping countries crush down revolutions/rebellions against their oppressive leaders. But when I say worldwide, what do I really mean?


Slide 3 (US bombed countries)
Ever since the end of World War II, the United States has bombed or invaded 29 countries. From Guatemala in Central America to Asian countries such as Korea, the United States military has participated in the oppression of countries all throughout the world. Each of these countries deserve their own time dedicated to evaluating the US oppression of them, in this teach in will focus explicitly on Palestine and the Congo. However, I wanted to further cement the point of US oppression by highlighting only SOME of the other genocides that the US government has supported in just the past century.


Slide 4 (Bangladesh)
In the year 1971, in just 8 months 6 weeks and 2 days, Pakistan massacred at least 3 million Bangladeshi people. This includes the rape of 200,000 to 400,000 Bangladeshi women. This genocide of Bangladesh was militarily supported by the United States. The United States provided many of the weapons that Pakistani soldiers used in their destruction of Bangladesh. Why did the US military support Pakistan? Bangladesh existed as East Pakistan prior to 1971, and millions in East Pakistan were pushing for independence from West Pakistan (current day Pakistan). However, Pakistan and the US did not want this as it would reduce US influence in the region and the independence movement had socialist characteristics. Many Americans nowadays are almost completely unaware of this genocide, but Bangladesh will never forget. We will never forget the words uttered out of Nixon's mouth when he said the Indian region needed its own mass famine. We will never foget the words uttered by Kissinger when he called all people in Bangladesh ``bastards. These beliefs fueled their funding of this genocide, but ultimately Bangladesh still won its independence.There is far more history that we sadly cannot get into this teach in but I highly advise you to check it out. Now lets move on to another genocide supported by the US.


Slide 5 (Indonesia)
From 1965 to 1966, the US backed the military rule of Indonesia that massacred anywhere from 500,000 to 1 million people for supposed communist ties. Fueled with US funding, US intelligence and even US weapons, the Indonesian military cracked down on the PKI, the Communist Party of Indonesia. Many of the people murdered were suspected members of the PKI, but many of them were also not members who were just feminists, labor organizers, artists, and even just normal civilians who had no political ties whatsoever. Along with the murder of hundreds of thousands of Indonesians, the military rule of Indonesia also sent a similar amount of people into brutal prison camps. In addition to this, armed by the United States, the Indonesian military dictatorship invaded East Timor in 1975. In 24 years, a genocide on East Timoreans were carried out and 1/5 of the entire population was killed. Once again, there is so much history behind this genocide that I sadly cannot elaborate on further, but I once again ask for you to research into the history on your own. Now lets move onto another genocide that was actually carried out by the United States


Slide 6 (Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam)
The United States has done an innumerable amount of damage to the region of Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia. The United States refused to let Communism spread in Southeast Asia, so it invaded Vietnam, bombed Laos, and supported a so-called communist dictator in Pol Pot. In Laos, the United States dropped over 2 MILLION tons of cluster bombs. To this day, Laos still remains the most BOMBED country in human history. Hundreds of thousands were murdered by these bombs in the 1970s and even after the bombings. 20,000 people died from then to now, with over half of them being children. The United States also backed the Pol Pot regime which massacred 1 to 3 million Cambodians from 1976-1978 for inexplicable reasons. The US provided funding to the Pol Pot led government, which was then used to massacre Cambodians. Lastly, the US engaged Vietnam in a supposed war from 1955 to 1975 which resulted in the deaths of millions of Vietnamese people. The US military bombed Vietnamese villages indiscriminately, were told to kill Vietnamese citizens without hesitaiton, and destroyed much of the important infrastructure in Vietnam. The US participation in genocides in the Southeast region cannot be undestated, and I highly recommend you all to also learn more about it. 


Slide 7 (And more)
There is far more the US is complicit in as well, these are only just 3 brief summaries of genocides that the US backed. There is far, far more massacres that the US military and US militant companies are complicit in such as in Iraq, Yemen, Chile and so much more. All of this goes to show how genocidal and evil the US military is. All of this mass murder for the sake of protecting US corporate interests of profit through the continued exploitation of these regions. Many of these movements that the US fought against were trying to free themselves from exploitation from the West or western-backed leaders, yet the US military could not let these movements, that promised to improve the lives of millions, come to be without a price of millions. Though, I have discussed a lot about the US military I want to briefly go over the NYPD and the FBI and their oppression specfically in the United States.


Slide 8 (FBI)
We can go endlessly about the oppression that the FBI has done on people throughout this country. Perhaps another teach in? However, I wanted to highlight the Counter Intelligence Program or COINTEL Pro ran by the FBI from 1956 to 1976. With this program, the FBI infiltrated and disrupted countless leftist movements which include Black Civil Rights movements, the Puerto Rican Independence Movement and various Native American movements throughout the country. The FBI in their crackdown of these organizations violated countless constitutional rights including freedom of Speech and not putting people through a trial. Ultimately, COINTEL pro took the lives of dozens of American citizens and resulted in the jailing of hundreds if not thousands of citzens. The way the FBI destroyed many of these movements, movements that fought for increased civil liberties or freedom from oppression within the country, is deplorable. I want to move onto another organization that particpates in oppression within NYC.


Slide 9(NYPD)
The NYPD has been an incredibly oppressive force in this city. I cannot fully cover the full extent of the NYPD's oppression in this teach in, but it can be covered perhaps in a later one. However, I want to go over some of the basics. The NYPD is the third largest department in the city and it receives just under $11 BILLION in funding. It has over 36,000 full time officers in the city and over 19,000 civilian workers. To put this into context, if the NYPD was a military its budget would rank 23rd in the ENTIRE WORLD. The NYPD is also notorious for its discimination against people of color. A prime example of this is how Black New Yorkers are over TWICE as likely to be stopped by an officer than a white New Yorker. The NYPD has also been responsible for the murder of 13 people in just the year 2022. Along with this, the NYPD has been participatory in the oppression of political movements. An example of this in our current day is their discriminate crack downs on pro-Palestinian actions and organizations. All of these organizations in the country are guilty of oppressing our very own citizens and participate in this system of oppression throughout the country. We need to further analyze the full extent of oppression that the US is responsible for, so to start that NYU Tandon MSA will go over the current genocide in Gaza. 


Our Demands
We demand NYU Tandon cut off all its ties with the US military and militant companies. There is absolutely no reason as to why the funding that you receive from US THE STUDENTS should go towards programs that work to aid companies and agencies that participate in worldwide oppression. There is absolutely NO reason that the brilliant minds and work of our engineering students should go towards the US military and mlitant companies. Engineering should be a subject that works to IMPROVE the lives of millions throughout the globe. Yet, these companies and organizations work to MASSACRE millions with horrifying technologies developed by engineers. NYU Tandon CUT OFF YOUR TIES WITH THE MILITARY, THE NYPD, THE FBI AND MILITANT COMPANIES


We also demand NYU to shut down its Tel Aviv campus and to cut off all ties with Israel. The Tel Aviv campus is built upon the former Palestinian villages of Sheikh Mawanis and Yafa. We must REFUSE to particpate in the colonization of Palestine. We must REFUSE to support a state that has been stealing land for 75 years, and is enacting an objective GENOCIDE on Palestinians in Gaza. NYU still has refused to even acknowledge this fact. In fact, they have been trying to repress pro Palestinian speech on campus as seen by the suspension of a student and two professors. We can also see it through them sending security to our event as a form of intimidation. We cannot back down and we must continue to put pressure on NYU to cut its ties with Israel and SHUT DOWN its Tel Aviv campus.


But how can we do this?


Slide 1 Intro:
Welcome everybody to the YDSA, ASU and SDS teach in about the ongoing crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Sudan that have resulted in the devastation of millions of lives. Despite this, most forms of media are relatively silent about them, so today we wanted to inform all of you about these crises but also how exactly we, as people living in the west, can take action to help the people in these countries. So to start off, 


Slide 2 Congo: 
I will be discussing the ongoing crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the history of the country, and what institutions/countries are guilty of participating in this exploitation. So to begin:


Slide 3 Overview: 
The Democratic Republic of the Congo (I will probably just refer to it as the Congo) is one of the largest and most diverse countries on the continent of Africa. It is the 2nd largest country in Africa, and 11th largest country in the world with over 104 million people calling it home. There are over 250 different ethnic groups who live in the Congo such as the Kongo peoples, the Ubangi, the Teke, and many other groups all live within the country. There are some French people, from the colonial days but fuck them. Within the country as well, there are over 200 different languages that are spoken, however the official language used is sadly French, however, there are 4 national languages which are Kituba, Lingala, Swahili, and Tshiluba. The Congo is not only a culturally rich country, but is also 


Slide 4 Material Resource Overview: 
An incredibly resource rich country. The Congo contains vast natural resources but most significant is its large amount of natural minerals located within it. The Congo is home to large quantities of cobalt, coltan, gold, diamonds, zinc. Cobalt and Tantalite (which is derived from Coltan) are so incredibly important in the booming technology industries that exist in the west and even in countries like China and Russia. They essentially power everything in our lives from our smartphones to 5G stations to electric vehicles to even your smart juicers (if you’re one of those weirdos who have them) These essential materials that basically run our lives can mostly all be traced back to the Congo. It’s insane how valuable these minerals and other minerals mined in the Congo really are. In terms of raw value, the Congo has over $24 TRILLION of minerals. This would make the Congo one of the richest countries in our world, yet 
Slide 5 The Poorest
As it exists today, the Congo is in crisis and the majority of the people living there are suffering. Let me try to put it into perspective. Over 80% of the population, that means 80 MILLION people live in extreme poverty as defined by the United Nations. In fact, this would make the Congo the third POOREST country in the world. Along with this, over 27 million people in the Congo suffer from food insecurity with 7 million of those people living with emergency levels of hunger. Let’s further look into the horrible conditions of the Congo.


Slide 6 Crisis in the Congo
The Congo has been in crisis for decades now. 7 million people have been internally displaced in the country. Ever since 1996, conflict in the Congo has left over 6 million people dead. There is very little infrastructure to provide people with healthcare millions live without it, child labour is incredibly prevalent throughout mines and agricultural farms, in fact education is greatly unavailable to millions of children with most children the age of 10 and above being illiterate, systemic discrimination of women in the country which has led to the greater suffering of millions of women, the environmental destruction of one of the most biodiverse countries in the world, and so, so much more is happening within the Congo. I could spend an entire presentation diving deeper into the various systemic issues ongoing within the Congo, but instead I want to ask this question: How can a country that is so wealthy with natural resources also be one of the worst countries to grow up in? Well the answer, 


Slide 7 Imperialism
Is foreign backed destabilization of the country through militia groups, an incompetent (and many times complicit) Congo government, various foreign mines with awful human rights abuses, and various other factors. It is through this destabilization of the country and keeping the country in constant turmoil that foreign companies can acquire many of the raw resources that we mentioned earlier (especially Cobalt and Coltan) for incredibly low prices. In turn, these companies are able to turn a higher profit off the products that they create with these resources. The cost of these profits; human lives and suffering. I want to further highlight this destabilization through a case study on Coltan, one of the most valuable resources in our modern, technology centered world.


Slide 8 Case Study: Coltan
Coltan, which is processed into Tantalite, is an incredibly important mineral that powers pretty much all of the technology in our world today. The Congo contains the largest reserves of Coltan, and it also exports the most raw Coltan in the world today. However, the methods in which Coltan is obtained is often illegal, exploitative and works to the benefit of western corporations. Over 90% of all minerals mined in the Congo is done through artisanal mining, which mostly occurs illegally in the Congo. Most of the time, private companies in the Congo buy their Coltan from these sources instead of creating their own official mines. This would mean over 60% of global production of Coltan is done through mostly illegal mining. Oftentimes, this mining is carried out by militia groups such as the ADF and M23 who operate illegal mining operations in the regions of the Congo that they have control over. There are an innumerable amount of human rights abuses and child labour usage in the obtaining of Coltan done by illegal mining operations. There are various stories of workers comparing their mining to literal slavery as they often receive very little pay for their work and have to work sometimes 20 hours a day. The government of Congo sometimes establishes incredibly underfunded and faulty organizations, such as the SAEMPE, to work to prevent this illegal mining but they are very ineffective. This illegal Coltan is then sold to foreign companies to be processed through non official means. This includes counterfeiting the Coltan as legally and officially mined, smuggling the Coltan into neighboring countries such as Rwanda (who in 2014 actually led the world in Coltan exports despite having very few Coltan mining operations), these countries then enter it into the global market, or through various other means. It is incredibly common for state officials and foreign investors to collaborate with illegal mining operations as they profit greatly off of it. End of the day, it is the Congolese workers who are having their labor exploited, and the entire country that is being exploited for the profits of foreign companies rather than being allowed to invest the resources into the development of the Congo. I want to continue providing context through a brief historical analysis of the country, and how foreign, mostly western countries, have exploited the Congo for over a century now. 


Slide 9 Leopold II
I want to preface this by saying that I will only be able to give only a brief history of the Congo today, but I highly encourage you to check it out on your own. The brutalization of the Congolese people and their fight for their liberation is incredibly important to learn and understand. To begin, I wanted to start with King Leopold of Belgium obtaining the Free State of Congo in 1885. The King promised to improve the lives of Africans living there, but that was FAR FAR from the truth of what actually happened. During the next 75 years of Belgian (and part French later on) rule, over 10 million Congolese people were killed. Millions more were enslaved by their colonizers to produce resources such as ivory, rubber and more. The photo on the slide is of a Congolese man with his hand chopped off, which was often a punishment for slaves who disobeyed orders. He, however, is not looking at his own hand on the ground but rather the hand of his 5 year old daughter. Who was then also killed because the village did not produce enough rubber. This is only one story of millions during their time of brutal exploitation. 


Slide 10 Independence
During the colonial period not a lot of infrastructure was built until near the very end of Belgian rule. There were and still kind of are large swaths of land separating larger settlements. Lumumba along with a lot of his contemporaries and rivals were of an educated class of Congolese who both got the chance to study abroad and could speak French. During the colonial period and into the liberation period there were workers strikes, citizens revolts and riots. Some political actors within the Congolese elite were also politically organizing across the world with help from other African countries and radical communities. It was around this time that Belgium knew its power was waning and they asked for help from Europe but didn’t get as much support as they thought they would. This resulted in the Congo obtaining its freedom from Belgium in 1960, this freedom was fought for not given as Belgium at the time tried to imply. 


Slide 10 Lumumba Being Killed 
Patrice Lumumba was the first prime minister of the now free Congo. He was an incredible leader who was very charismatic and had a large popular base amongst the Congolese people. He was a pan-Africanist and socialist, believing that the Congo, specifically all of Africa, needed to collaborate to expel imperialist forces from the continent. This made him a threat to the west, but more specifically the United States, Belgium and France. The three countries through the CIA collaborated with Joseph Mobutu, who was on the board of the Congo, to kidnap, torture, and then execute Lumumba. 


Slide 11 Joseph the Bum
Ultimately, Joseph Mobutu took over as a western backed dictator of the Congo after 2 coups in 1971. Supported by the US, France, and Belgium for his strong anti-communist stance, Mobutu ravaged the Congo. He allowed private western companies to come into the Congo to start mining operations, he put down worker rebellions and strikes, he siphoned off billions from the Congolese state budget to his own pockets resulting in whatever infrastructure existed in the Congo being neglected. Joseph Mobutu saw his end in 1997 when he was killed by a militia group that was funded by Uganda and Rwanda. This assassination took place also after the west dropped their support of his regime due to the collapse of the USSR. 


Slide 12 Instability, Instability
The rebel group that killed Mobutu was led by Laurent Kabila who also ended up becoming a dictator over the Congo. However, he represented the interests of the Ugandan and Rwandan governments, but was ultimately betrayed by them 4 years later 2001 when they sponsored rebel groups to kill him. In his place, his son, Joseph Kabila, ruled as dictator over Congo until 2018. Under Joseph, the country’s industries were further privatized by foreign companies, and the countries of Rwanda and Uganda looted the country, which continues to this day. He also, like Joseph Mubutu, enriched himself and his family through stealing state funds. After Joseph Kabila stepped down in 2018, Felix Tshisedeki took power through an election in which only 16% of the population participated. The Congolese history of widespread exploitation by foreign countries and companies along with instability due to corrupt leadership and poor infrastructure and continuous infighting, has led to the current crisis in the country. 


Slide 13: Conclusion
After its independence in 1960, there was hope that the Congo could finally free itself of imperialism and provide its people with a massive improvement in life quality. However, the hope has failed to culminate and it is our own government and other foreign governments/institutions that are to blame. Foreign corporations such as Tesla, Apple, Google, and Microsoft, all institutions that NYU has ties with, profit off the suffering and destruction of the Congo. Our governments fail to hold these corporations liable for their active role in this crisis. In fact, on March 6th, this year a US federal court sided with Apple, Tesla and other companies in a case that alleged their part in active child labour being used in Congo mines. Majority of us use their products here in the West without any knowledge of the human suffering required to obtain the materials used within it. I believe it is our moral duty as people who benefit from their exploitation to try our best to support the people in the Congo. Later on in this presentation, we will go over how we can take action as westerners but first I believe it is also incredibly important to understand the crisis happening in Sudan so to do that will be a speaker from the African Student Union.
1. What is a commodity? How does commodity production differ from other kinds of productions? Why is it important?
A commodity is a product created for the purpose of sale rather than for one’s own use. Commodity production destroyed the natural economy. The natural economy consisted of laborers creating products to fulfill self-sustainment rather than for sale. The products created from the natural economy and commodity production all have a use value to fulfill, otherwise they would not have been created. However, a commodity is exchanged for other commodities. The producer of a commodity has no use value in the commodity that they produce, but the purchaser does. In a natural economy, the producer has a use value for a product that they have created. This distinction is important because commodity production is essentially universal in our world today, and it is the form of production that capitalism requires.  